# Text Extraction: APA Publication Manual- 7th Edition -- American Psychological Association, American Psychological -- ( WeLib.org ).pdf
# Processed: 2026-02-06T09:09:03.951164
# File type: PDF
# Pages extracted: 703
================================================================================

--- Page 1 ---

SEVENTH ED

THE OFFICIA



--- Page 2 ---

L
IST OF TABLES AND
FIGURES
Tables
Table 2.1   Effective and Ineffective Paper Titles
Table 2.2   Examples of Author Bylines and Affiliations
Table 2.3   Format for the Five Levels of Heading in APA Style
Table 3.1   Quantitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–
Quant)
Table 3.2   Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Qual)
Table 3.3   Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards (JARS–
Mixed)
Table 4.1   Recommended Verb Tenses in APA Style Papers
Table 6.1   Guide to Hyphenating Temporary Compound Terms
Table 6.2   Prefixes and Suffixes That Do Not Require Hyphens
Table 6.3   Compound Words That Require Hyphens
Table 6.4   Abbreviations for Common Units of Measurement
Table 6.5   Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols
Table 7.1   Basic Components of a Table
Table 7.2   Sample Demographic Characteristics Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 3 ---

Table 7.3   Sample Properties of Study Variables Table
Table 7.4   Sample Meta-Analysis Summary Table
Table 7.5   Sample Summary of Complex Experimental Design
Table
Table 7.6   Sample Descriptive Statistics for Study Measures
Table
Table 7.7   Sample Chi-Square Analysis Table
Table 7.8   Sample Results of Several t Tests Table
Table 7.9   Sample a Priori or Post Hoc Comparisons Table
Table 7.10  Sample Correlation Table for One Sample
Table 7.11  Sample Correlation Table for Two Samples
Table 7.12  Sample Analysis of Variance Table (Option 1)
Table 7.13  Sample Analysis of Variance Table (Option 2)
Table 7.14  Sample Factor Analysis Table
Table 7.15  Sample Regression Table, Without Confidence
Intervals
Table 7.16  Sample Regression Table, With Confidence Intervals
in Brackets
Table 7.17  Sample Regression Table, With Confidence Intervals
in Separate Columns
Table 7.18  Sample Hierarchical Multiple Regression Table
Table 7.19  Sample Model Comparison Table
Table 7.20  Sample Multilevel Model Comparison Table
Table 7.21  Sample Confirmatory Factor Analysis Model
Comparison Table
Table 7.22  Sample Qualitative Table With Variable Descriptions
Table 7.23  Sample Qualitative Table Incorporating Quantitative
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 4 ---

Data
Table 7.24  Sample Mixed Methods Table
Table 8.1   Basic In-Text Citation Styles
Table 8.2   Examples of Direct Quotations Cited in the Text
Table 9.1   How to Create a Reference When Information Is
Missing
Table 11.1  Key Differences Between APA Style References and
Legal References
Table 11.2  Common Legal Reference Abbreviations
Table 12.1  Copyright Attribution Templates
Table 12.2  Example Copyright Attributions for Reprinted or
Adapted Tables and Figures
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 5 ---

Figures
Figure 2.1   Sample Professional Title Page
Figure 2.2   Sample Student Title Page
Figure 2.3   Sample Author Note
Figure 2.4   Use of Headings in a Sample Introduction
Figure 2.5   Format of Headings in a Sample Paper
Figure 3.1   Flowchart of Quantitative Reporting Standards to
Follow Depending on Research Design
Figure 7.1   Basic Components of a Figure
Figure 7.2   Sample Bar Graph
Figure 7.3   Sample Line Graph
Figure 7.4   Sample Figure Showing the Flow of Participants
Through a Study Process
Figure 7.5   Sample CONSORT Flow Diagram
Figure 7.6   Sample Conceptual Model
Figure 7.7   Sample Structural Equation Model
Figure 7.8   Sample Confirmatory Factor Analysis Results Figure
Figure 7.9   Sample Path Model
Figure 7.10  Sample Qualitative Research Figure
Figure 7.11  Sample Mixed Methods Research Figure
Figure 7.12  Sample Illustration of Experimental Setup
Figure 7.13  Sample Illustration of Experimental Stimuli
Figure 7.14  Sample Map
Figure 7.15  Sample Scatterplot
Figure 7.16  Sample Multidimensional Scaling Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 6 ---

Figure 7.17  Sample Photograph
Figure 7.18  Sample Complex Multipanel Figure
Figure 7.19  Sample Event-Related Potential Figure
Figure 7.20  Sample fMRI Figure
Figure 7.21  Sample Display of Genetic Material (Physical Map)
Figure 8.1   Example of an Appropriate Level of Citation
Figure 8.2   Correspondence Between a Reference List Entry and
an In-Text Citation
Figure 8.3   Example of Repeated Narrative Citations With the Year
Omitted
Figure 8.4   Example of a Long Paraphrase With a Single In-Text
Citation
Figure 8.5   Example of Repeated Citations Necessary to Clarify
Sources
Figure 8.6   Example of Changes Made to a Direct Quotation
Figure 8.7   Example of Citations Omitted at the End of a Quotation
Figure 9.1   Example of Where to Find Reference Information for a
Journal Article
Figure 9.2   Examples of the Order of Works in a Reference List
Figure 9.3   Sample Annotated Bibliography
Figure 9.4   Use of Asterisks to Indicate Studies Included in a Meta-
Analysis
Figure 12.1  Flowchart of Manuscript Progression From Submission
to Publication
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 7 ---

 
EDITORIAL STAFF AND
CONTRIBUTORS
Project Director
Emily L. Ayubi
APA Style Team
Chelsea L. Bromstad Lee
Hayley S. Kamin
Timothy L. McAdoo
Anne T. Woodworth
Ayanna A. Adams
Publication Manual Revision Task Force
James Campbell Quick, Chair
Mark Appelbaum
Jacklynn Mary Fitzgerald
Scott Hines
Heidi M. Levitt
Arthur M. Nezu
Pamela Reid
APA Publications and Communications Board Task Force on
Journal Article Reporting Standards
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 8 ---

APA Working Group on Quantitative Research Reporting Standards
Mark Appelbaum, Chair
Harris Cooper
Rex B. Kline
Evan Mayo-Wilson
Arthur M. Nezu
Stephen M. Rao
James Campbell Quick, Publications and Communications Board
Liaison
APA Working Group on Reporting Standards for Qualitative
Research
Heidi M. Levitt, Chair
Michael Bamberg
John W. Creswell
David M. Frost
Ruthellen Josselson
Carola Suárez-Orozco
James Campbell Quick, Publications and Communications Board
Liaison
APA Public Interest Bias-Free Language Committees
Committee on Aging
Walter R. Boot
Brian Carpenter
Erin E. Emery-Tiburcio
Margaret Norris
Patricia A. Parmelee
Maggie L. Syme
Deborah A. DiGilio, Staff Liaison
Committee on Disability Issues in Psychology
Erin E. Andrews
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 9 ---

Susan D’Mello
Jennifer J. Duchnick
Dana S. Dunn
John W. Hagen
Poorna Kushalnagar
Eun-Jeong Lee
Erin M. Liebich
Treven Curtis Pickett
Jennifer Reesman
Karrie A. Shogren
Maggie K. Butler, Staff Liaison
Committee on Ethnic Minority Affairs
A. Kathleen Burlew
Milton A. Fuentes
Daniel Gaztambide
Scott Graves
Kelli Johnson
Michelle Madore
Sandra Mattar
Helen A. Neville
Don Operario
Wendy Peters
Don Pope-Davis
Tiffany Townsend, Staff Liaison
Alberto Figueroa-García, Staff Liaison
Committee on Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity
Mark Brennan-Ing
Sarah Burgamy
Arlene Noriega
Seth T. Pardo
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 10 ---

Julia Z. Benjamin, American Psychological Association of Graduate
Students CSOGD Chair
Clinton Anderson, Staff Liaison
Ron Schlittler, Staff Liaison
Committee on Socioeconomic Status
Rosario Ceballo
Ramani Durvasula
John Ruiz
Wendy R. Williams
Keyona King-Tsikata, Staff Liaison
Maha Khalid, Staff Liaison
Committee on Women in Psychology
Alette Coble-Temple
Paola Michelle Contreras
Sarah L. Cook
Diya Kallivayalil
Shannon Lynch
Charlotte McCloskey
Alayne J. Ormerod
Lauren Stutts
Shari E. Miles-Cohen, Staff Liaison
Tanya Burrwell Dozier, Staff Liaison
Reviewers
Tricia B. Bent-Goodley
Melinda Knight
Rachel Mack
Cynthia Saver
Frank C. Worrell
Jeff Zuckerman
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 11 ---

 
A C K N O W L E D G M E N T S
The precursor to the Publication Manual of the American Psychological
Association was published in 1929 as a seven-page article in Psychological
Bulletin describing a “standard of procedure, to which exceptions would
doubtless be necessary, but to which reference might be made in cases of
doubt” (Bentley et al., 1929, p. 57). Since then, the scope and length of the
Publication Manual have grown in response to the needs of researchers,
students, and educators across the social and behavioral sciences, health care,
natural sciences, humanities, and more; however, the spirit of the original
authors’ intentions remains.
To address changes in scholarly writing and publishing since the release of
the sixth edition, we consulted many professional groups and experts (each
recognized individually in the Editorial Staff and Contributors list). We thank
members of the Publication Manual Revision Task Force for their vision for
the manual and for ensuring that our guidance reflects current best practices.
We also thank the APA Working Group on Quantitative Research Reporting
Standards for updating the original journal article reporting standards (JARS)
for quantitative research and the APA Working Group on Reporting
Standards for Qualitative Research for their groundbreaking work in
establishing the first set of qualitative and mixed methods JARS in APA
Style. We are indebted to members of the APA Public Interest Directorate
committees and other advocacy groups who revised the bias-free language
guidelines on age, disability, race and ethnicity, sexual orientation and gender
diversity, and socioeconomic status. We are also grateful to the reviewers
who provided valuable perspectives while representing psychology, nursing,
education, business, social work, ethics, and writing instruction.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 12 ---

The important work of the Publication Manual Revision Task Force, JARS
working groups, APA bias-free language committees, and other experts
builds on efforts from previous groups. Thus, we also acknowledge the
significant contributions of prior task forces, working groups, and APA staff
members who revised previous editions of the Publication Manual.
For her contribution to the sections on race and ethnicity, we thank Karen
Suyemoto from the University of Massachusetts Boston. For their insights on
sexual orientation, gender, and disability, we thank reviewers from the
Human Rights Campaign: Jay Brown, Katalina Hadfield, Ellen Kahn, and
Sula Malina. We also thank lore m. dickey, Mira Krishnan, and Anneliese A.
Singh, members of APA Division 44: Society for the Psychology of Sexual
Orientation and Gender Diversity, for their expertise in revising the sections
on sexual orientation and gender diversity. For his suggestions regarding
substance use language, we thank William W. Stoops from the University of
Kentucky College of Medicine. They all shared their wisdom and passion for
their communities to help people write with respect and inclusivity.
This edition of the Publication Manual is more accessible thanks in large
part to the enthusiastic, detailed, and thoughtful contributions from David
Berman Communications—in particular, David Berman, Michael E. Cooper,
Hannah Langford Berman, and Krisandra Ivings. They helped refine our
recommendations for fonts, headings, reference style, color contrast, and
more to benefit all people who will use the manual.
For their guidance on presenting findings in tables and figures, we thank
Adelheid A. M. Nicol and Penny M. Pexman. We also thank Gilad Chen,
Anne M. Galletta, Roger Giner-Sorolla, Kevin Grimm, Lisa L. Harlow,
Wendy Rogers, and Nadine Michele Weidman for their insights into
publishing. We thank Steve W. J. Kozlowski, Open Science and
Methodology Chair, for his expertise on replication and publication ethics.
For their valuable expertise on legal references, we thank David DeMatteo
and Kirk Heilbrun from Drexel University.
We also thank the many APA staff and consultants who contributed their
feedback and expertise. These staff work across APA Publishing, the
Education Directorate, the Executive Office, Information Technology
Services, the Office of General Counsel, the Public Interest Directorate, and
the Science Directorate: Joe Albrecht, Emma All, Kimmone Allen, Ida
Audeh, David Becker, Cara Bevington, Martha Boenau, Marla Bonner, Liz
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 13 ---

Brace, Dan Brachtesende, Dan Brown, Ann Butler, Kerry Cahill, Brenda
Carter, Lindsay Childress-Beatty, Alison Cody, Lyndsey Curtis, Chris Detzi,
Katie Einhorn, Andy Elkington, Kristine Enderle, Elise Frasier, Rob Fredley,
Dana Gittings, Hannah Greenbaum, Rachel Hamilton, Sue Harris, Beth
Hatch, Annie Hill, Sue Houston, Shelby Jenkins, Robert Johnson, Lois Jones,
Shontay Kincaid, Kristen Knight, Kristin Walker Kniss, Marla
Koenigsknecht, David Kofalt, George Kowal, J.J. Larrea, Stefanie Lazer,
Katy Lenz, Glynne Leonard, Kathryn Hyde Loomis, Tim Meagher, Jennifer
Meidinger, Claire Merenda, Necco McKinley, Clinton Moore, Debra Naylor,
David Nygren, Sangeeta Panicker, Amy Pearson, Steph Pollock, Lee Rennie,
Natalie Robinson, Kathleen Sheedy, Jasper Simons, Rose Sokol-Chang, Ann
Springer, Elizabeth Stern, Amber Story, Daniya Tamendarova, Nina Tandon,
Ron Teeter, Karen Thomas, Jenna Vaccaro, Purvi Vashee, Chi Wang, Jason
Wells, Sarah Wiederkehr, Angel Williams, Kimberly Williams, Aaron Wood,
and Sherry Wynn.
Last, we thank our many users who contributed their feedback via emails,
surveys, interviews, focus groups, and social media. Your insights into what
worked for you and what more you needed from APA Style have been
invaluable in revising and creating content for this edition of the manual.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 14 ---

 
INTRODUCTION
Excellence in writing is critical for success in many academic and
professional pursuits. APA Style is a set of guidelines for clear and precise
scholarly communication that helps authors, both new and experienced,
achieve excellence in writing. It is used by millions of people around the
world in psychology and also in fields ranging from nursing to social work,
communications to education, business to engineering, and other disciplines
for the preparation of manuscripts for publication as well as for writing
student papers, dissertations, and theses. The Publication Manual of the
American Psychological Association is the authoritative resource for APA
Style, and we are proud to deliver its seventh edition.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 15 ---

Why Use APA Style?
APA Style provides a foundation for effective scholarly communication
because it helps authors present their ideas in a clear, concise, and organized
manner. Uniformity and consistency enable readers to (a) focus on the ideas
being presented rather than formatting and (b) scan works quickly for key
points, findings, and sources. Style guidelines encourage authors to fully
disclose essential information and allow readers to dispense with minor
distractions, such as inconsistencies or omissions in punctuation,
capitalization, reference citations, and presentation of statistics.
When style works best, ideas flow logically, sources are credited
appropriately, and papers are organized predictably and consistently. People
are described using language that affirms their worth and dignity. Authors
plan for ethical compliance and report critical details of their research
protocol to allow readers to evaluate findings and other researchers to
potentially replicate the studies. Tables and figures present data in an
engaging, consistent manner.
Whether you use APA Style for a single class or throughout your career,
we encourage you to recognize the benefits of a conscientious approach to
writing. Although the guidelines span many areas and take time and practice
to learn, we hope that they provide a balance of directiveness and flexibility
and will eventually become second nature.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 16 ---

APA Style for Students
The Publication Manual has long been an authoritative source for scholarly
writing, and this edition provides more targeted guidance and support for
students. All students, no matter what career they pursue, can benefit from
mastering scholarly writing as a way to develop their critical thinking skills
and hone the precision and clarity of their communication.
Most guidelines in the Publication Manual can be applied to both student
papers and professional manuscripts. The manual also has elements
specifically designed for students, including a student title page; guidance on
citing classroom or intranet sources; and descriptions of common types of
student papers such as annotated bibliographies, response papers, and
dissertations and theses. Journal article reporting standards (JARS) are
intended primarily for authors seeking publication but may be helpful for
students completing advanced research projects.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 17 ---

Utility and Accessibility
We have created the seventh edition of the Publication Manual with the
practical needs of users in mind. Within chapters, content is organized using
numbered sections to help users quickly locate answers to their questions.
This ease of navigability and depth of content mean that the manual can be
used as both a reference work and a textbook on scholarly writing.
This edition promotes accessibility for everyone, including users with
disabilities. In consultation with accessibility experts, we ensured that the
guidelines support users who read and write works in APA Style through a
variety of modalities, including screen readers and other assistive
technologies. For example, we present a streamlined format for in-text
citations intended to reduce the burden of both writing and reading them. We
provide guidance on how to use adequate contrast in figures to meet Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (Web Accessibility Initiative, 2018). We
also support the use of a variety of fonts and default settings in common
word-processing programs, meaning that users need to make fewer
adjustments to their systems to be ready to write in APA Style. Above all, our
aim is to support the many ways in which people communicate. We
encourage authors to be conscientious and respectful toward both the people
about whom they are writing and the readers who will benefit from their
work.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 18 ---

What’s New in the Seventh Edition?
Brief descriptions of new and updated content are provided next on a chapter-
by-chapter basis. For a more comprehensive overview of content changes,
see the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org).
Chapter 1: Scholarly Writing and Publishing Principles
Chapter 1 addresses types of papers and ethical compliance.
New guidance addresses quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods
articles as well as student papers, dissertations, and theses.
Information on planning for and ensuring ethical compliance reflects best
practices.
Guidance on data sharing, including in qualitative research, reflects open
practice standards.
Chapter 2: Paper Elements and Format
Chapter 2 is designed to help novice users of APA Style select, format, and
organize paper elements.
The title page is updated for professionals, and a new student title page is
provided.
For all papers, the byline and affiliation format on the title page aligns
with publishing standards.
The author note includes more information, such as ORCID iDs,
disclosure of conflicts of interest or lack thereof, and study registration
information.
The running head format has been simplified for professional authors and
is not required for students.
Font specifications are more flexible to address the need for accessibility.
An updated heading format for Levels 3, 4, and 5 improves readability
and assists authors who use the heading-styles feature of their word-
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 19 ---

processing program.
Two new sample papers are provided: a professional paper and a student
paper, with labels to show how specific elements appear when
implemented.
Chapter 3: Journal Article Reporting Standards
Chapter 3 orients users to journal article reporting standards (JARS) and
includes tables outlining standards for reporting quantitative, qualitative, and
mixed methods research.
JARS for quantitative research has been significantly expanded and
updated (see Appelbaum et al., 2018; Cooper, 2018).
The updated JARS now cover qualitative and mixed methods research
(see Levitt, 2019; Levitt et al., 2018).
Chapter 4: Writing Style and Grammar
Chapter 4 provides guidance on writing style and grammar.
The singular “they” is endorsed, consistent with inclusive usage.
More detailed guidance helps writers avoid anthropomorphism.
Chapter 5: Bias-Free Language Guidelines
Chapter 5 presents bias-free language guidelines to encourage authors to
write about people with inclusivity and respect.
Existing guidance on age, disability, gender, racial and ethnic identity,
and sexual orientation has been updated to reflect best practices.
New guidance is provided on participation in research, socioeconomic
status, and intersectionality.
Chapter 6: Mechanics of Style
Chapter 6 covers the mechanics of style, including punctuation,
capitalization, abbreviations, numbers, and statistics in text.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 20 ---

Updated guidance answers a common question: Use one space after a
period at the end of a sentence, unless an instructor or publisher requests
otherwise.
Formatting of linguistic examples has changed; quotation marks are now
used around examples, rather than italics, to promote accessibility.
Expanded guidance is provided on the capitalization of proper nouns, job
titles, diseases and disorders, and more.
Guidelines for the presentation of abbreviations address common
questions, such as how to include a citation with an abbreviation.
Guidelines for the presentation of numbers have been updated to be
consistent throughout a work (e.g., there is no longer an exception for
presenting numbers in an abstract).
New guidance is given on how to write gene and protein names.
Updated guidelines allow greater flexibility for lettered, numbered, and
bulleted lists.
Chapter 7: Tables and Figures
Chapter 7 presents guidance on creating tables and figures.
More than 40 new sample tables and figures are presented, in dedicated
sections, covering a variety of research types and topics.
The presentation of tables and figures in text is more flexible (either after
the reference list on separate pages or embedded in the text).
Formatting of tables and figures is parallel, including consistent styles for
numbers, titles, and notes.
The accessible use of color in figures is addressed.
Chapter 8: Works Credited in the Text
Chapter 8 addresses appropriate levels of citation as well as plagiarism, self-
plagiarism, and other unethical writing practices.
In-text citations have been simplified; all in-text citations for works with
three or more authors are shortened to the name of the first author plus “et
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 21 ---

al.” (except where this would create ambiguity).
New guidance is provided on how to cite recorded or unrecorded
Traditional Knowledge and Oral Traditions of Indigenous Peoples.
Examples of paraphrasing demonstrate how to achieve clear attribution
without overcitation.
New guidance is provided on how to format quotations from research
participants.
Chapter 9: Reference List
Chapter 9 examines the four elements of a reference list entry (author, date,
title, and source).
The number of authors included in a reference entry has changed; up to 20
authors are now included before names are omitted with an ellipsis.
The presentation of digital object identifiers (DOIs) and URLs has been
standardized. Both are presented as hyperlinks; the label “DOI:” is no
longer used, and the words “Retrieved from” are used only when a
retrieval date is also needed.
Updated guidance explains when to include DOIs and URLs for works
retrieved from most academic research databases as well as from
proprietary databases such as ERIC or UpToDate.
New formatting guidance is provided for annotated bibliographies.
Chapter 10: Reference Examples
Chapter 10 provides more than 100 examples of APA Style references, each
with accompanying parenthetical and narrative in-text citations.
Templates are provided for every reference category.
References are streamlined; for example, journal article references always
include the issue number, and book references now omit the publisher
location.
Audiovisual materials receive expanded coverage, with new examples for
YouTube videos, PowerPoint slides and lecture notes, TED Talks, and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 22 ---

more.
Social media, webpages, and websites are addressed in new categories.
For consistency and ease of formatting, blogs and other online platforms
that publish articles are part of the periodicals category.
Chapter 11: Legal References
Chapter 11 presents expanded and updated legal reference examples.
Guidelines from The Bluebook: A Uniform System of Citation continue
to be the foundation for APA Style legal references, with some
modifications.
New, relevant legal reference examples are provided (e.g., the Every
Student Succeeds Act).
Chapter 12: Publication Process
Chapter 12 provides guidance on the publication process.
New content helps early career researchers adapt a dissertation or thesis
into a journal article or articles, select a journal for publication, avoid
predatory or deceptive publishers, and navigate journal submission.
Improved guidance on the journal publication process reflects current
processes and policies authors need to be aware of when preparing a
manuscript for submission.
New guidance addresses how authors can share and promote their work
following publication.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 23 ---

APA Style Online
The APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org) is the premier and
authoritative online destination for APA Style. In addition to numerous free
resources and instructional aids, it contains supplemental content that is
referred to throughout the manual, including additional reference examples,
sample papers, and guidance on using color effectively and accessibly in
figures.
The JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars) contains the full
repository of information about journal article reporting standards for a wide
range of research designs; it is freely available to complement the orienting
information in Chapter 3.
The APA Style blog (https://apastyle.apa.org/blog) and related social
media accounts will continue to answer questions about and share insights
into APA Style with the publication of the seventh edition, providing
authoritative content from members of the APA Style team.
Academic Writer (https://digitallearning.apa.org/academic-writer) is
APA’s cloud-based tool for teaching and learning effective writing.
Developed by the creators of APA Style, this product helps both student and
professional authors compose research papers and master the application of
seventh-edition APA Style.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 24 ---

Notes to Users
The Publication Manual refers to numerous products and services that are not
affiliated with the American Psychological Association but that our readers
may encounter or use during the process of research, writing, and publication.
The trademarks referenced in the Publication Manual are the property of their
respective owners. The inclusion of non-APA products is for reference only
and should not be construed as an endorsement of or affiliation between APA
and the owners of these products and their respective brands.
Finally, some eagle-eyed users have asked why every aspect of APA Style
is not applied throughout this manual. The manual is a published work,
whereas the guidelines for APA Style are meant to be applied to manuscripts
being submitted for publication or to student papers. Considerations for
published works such as this book (e.g., typesetting, line spacing, length,
fonts, use of color, margins) differ from those of draft manuscripts or student
papers and thus necessitate deviations from APA Style formatting. Also, in
this manual—in which we are writing about writing—it is often necessary to
distinguish between explanatory text and examples through the use of font,
color, and other design elements. Wherever possible, however, we have
endeavored to demonstrate APA Style while writing about it and to present
the information in a way that is accessible for our many users around the
world.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 25 ---

1
SCHOLARLY WRITING AND
PUBLISHING
PRINCIPLES
Research is complete only when scholars share their results or findings with
the scientific community. Although researchers may post articles on scholarly
collaboration sites or preprint servers or share them informally by email or in
person, the most widely accepted medium for formal scholarly
communication continues to be the published article in a peer-reviewed,
scientific journal. Scientific journals contain our primary research literature
and thus serve as repositories of the accumulated knowledge of a field.
Students are also important members of the scholarly community.
Although most student work is not formally published, by writing papers
students engage in critical thinking, thoughtful self-reflection, and scientific
inquiry and thereby prepare to make unique contributions to the repository of
knowledge. Therefore, student writing deserves the same level of care and
attention to detail as that given to professional writing.
In this chapter, we provide important principles that professional and
student authors should consider before writing their paper or, in many cases,
before embarking on a research study. We begin with overviews of the
different types of articles and papers professional and student authors write.
This is followed by a discussion of ethical, legal, and professional standards
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 26 ---

in publishing that all authors of scholarly work, regardless of the type of
paper they are writing or their level of experience, must be mindful of and
abide by. For example, research conducted with human participants or
nonhuman animal subjects must be approved by an institutional review board
(IRB), institutional animal care and use committee (IACUC), or another
ethical committee. Similarly, an author writing about human participants
must protect their confidentiality while following best practices for data
sharing. Moreover, any written work, from a course paper to a published
manuscript, should represent an original contribution and include appropriate
citations to the work of others. Thus, scholarly writing and publishing, in all
forms, are inherently embedded in and guided by an ethical context.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 27 ---

Types of Articles and Papers
Many types of articles are published in scientific journals, including
quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods empirical articles and
replications. These journal articles report primary, or original, research—that
is, research that has not been previously formally published. Theoretical
articles and methodological articles do not present research but describe
advancements in theories or methods. Journal articles that review or
synthesize findings from primary research include literature reviews and
quantitative and qualitative meta-analyses. By understanding the
characteristics of different types of articles and the types of information they
most efficiently convey, you will be able to select an article type that fits your
research and to follow the appropriate journal article reporting standards
(discussed in Chapter 3). Students may write the same kinds of articles that
are published in journals, as well as student papers (including course
assignments, dissertations, and theses) not intended for publication in a
journal (see Section 1.10). Sample papers are included at the end of Chapter 2
and on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org).
1.1 Quantitative Articles
In quantitative articles, authors report original, empirical, quantitative
research. Quantitative research refers to a set of approaches commonly used
in the behavioral and social sciences and related fields in which the observed
outcomes are numerically represented. The results of these studies are
typically analyzed using methods (statistics, data analyses, and modeling
techniques) that rely on the numerical properties of the measurement system.
Quantitative research studies use a variety of experimental designs and a
range of analytic techniques. Some quantitative articles present novel
hypotheses and data analyses not considered or addressed in previous reports
of related data. Within the article, authors should describe elements of their
study in the first person (see Section 4.16). Researchers who used a
quantitative approach should follow the quantitative journal article reporting
standards to report their findings (see Sections 3.5–3.12).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 28 ---

Quantitative articles typically include distinct sections that reflect the
stages of the research process and appear in the following sequence:
Introduction: a statement of the purpose of the investigation, a review of
the background literature, and an explicit statement of the hypotheses
being explored (see Section 3.4)
Method: a full description of each step of the investigation, including
details about the materials used and the procedures followed (which
should be sufficient to enable replication), a full statement of the research
design, statements on the protection of human participants or nonhuman
animal subjects and informed consent, and a description (in words and/or
a figure) of the flow of participants through the study (see Section 3.6)
Results: data analysis and a report of the findings (see Section 3.7)
Discussion: a summary of the study, including any interpretation,
limitations, and implications of the results (see Section 3.8)
Reports of Multiple Studies. Authors of quantitative articles often report the
findings of several conceptually linked studies in one manuscript. These
authors should make the rationale, logic, order, and method of each study
clear to readers. Headings should be used to label each study—for instance,
“Experiment 1,” “Experiment 2,” and so forth. This format organizes the
sections and makes them easier to discuss in the manuscript or in later
research articles. Method and Results subsections can appear under each
study heading. If appropriate, the authors can include a short subsection titled
“Discussion” in which they explore the implications of the results of each
study, or they can combine the discussion with the description of results
under a heading such as “Results and Discussion.” Authors should always
include a comprehensive general discussion of all the studies at the end of the
article, which often has the heading “General Discussion.”
1.2 Qualitative Articles
In qualitative articles, authors report original, empirical, qualitative research.
Qualitative research refers to scientific practices that are used to generate
knowledge about human experience and/or action, including social processes.
Qualitative approaches tend to share four sets of characteristics:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 29 ---

Researchers analyze data consisting of natural language (i.e., words),
researcher observations (e.g., social interactions), and/or participants’
expressions (e.g., artistic presentations) rather than collecting numerical
data and conducting mathematical analyses. Reports tend to show the
development of qualitative findings using natural language (although
numbers may be used adjunctively in describing or exploring these
findings).
Researchers often use an iterative process of analysis in which they
reexamine developing findings in light of continued data analysis and
refine the initial findings. In this way, the process of analysis is self-
correcting and can produce original knowledge.
Researchers recursively combine inquiry with methods that require
researchers’ reflexivity about how their own perspectives might support or
impair the research process and thus how their methods should best be
enacted.
Researchers tend to study experiences and actions whose meaning may
shift and evolve; therefore, they tend to view their findings as being
situated within place and time rather than seeking to develop laws that are
expected to remain stable regardless of context.
Researchers who used a qualitative approach should follow the qualitative
journal article reporting standards to report their findings (see Sections
3.13–3.17).
Case Studies and Other Types of Qualitative Articles. A variety of
methods are reported in qualitative articles, and the structure of qualitative
articles varies depending on the nature of the study. For example, in case
studies researchers report analyses or observations obtained while working
closely with an individual, group, community, or organization. Case studies
illustrate a problem in depth; indicate a means for solving a problem; and/or
shed light on needed research, clinical applications, or theoretical matters.
Qualitative articles also describe studies with multiple participants, groups,
communities, or organizations that identify commonalities and/or differences
across these entities. Such research can have a systemic focus, examining the
ways in which social processes, actions, or discourses are structured.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 30 ---

Regardless of the qualitative research approaches they use, when writing
reports, authors should carefully consider the balance between providing
important illustrative material and using confidential participant data
responsibly (see Sections 1.18–1.19 for more on confidentiality; see also
Section 1.15). Qualitative reports may be organized thematically or
chronologically and are typically presented in a reflexive, first-person style,
detailing the ways in which the researchers arrived at questions, methods,
findings, and considerations for the field.
1.3 Mixed Methods Articles
In mixed methods articles, authors report research combining qualitative and
quantitative empirical approaches. Mixed methods research should not be
confused with mixed models research, which is a quantitative procedure, or
with multimethods research, which entails using multiple methods from the
same approach. Mixed methods research involves the following:
describing the philosophical assumptions or theoretical models used to
inform the study design (Creswell, 2015);
describing the distinct methodologies, research designs, and procedures in
relation to the study goals;
collecting and analyzing both qualitative and quantitative data in response
to research aims, questions, or hypotheses; and
integrating the findings from the two methodologies intentionally to
generate new insights.
The basic assumption of a mixed methods approach is that the combined
qualitative findings and quantitative results lead to additional insights not
gleaned from the qualitative or quantitative findings alone (Creswell, 2015;
Greene, 2007; Tashakkori & Teddlie, 2010). Because there are many ways to
design a mixed methods study, the structure of mixed methods articles varies
depending on the specific nature of the study and the balance between the
two methodologies. Researchers who used a mixed methods approach should
follow the mixed methods journal article reporting standards to report their
findings (see Section 3.18).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 31 ---

1.4 Replication Articles
In replication articles, authors report the results of work intended to verify or
reproduce findings from previous investigations. The aim of a replication
study is to examine whether the conclusions from an earlier study remain the
same or similar over variations in the conduct of the original study. There are
internal and external forms of replication; only external replications are
addressed in APA journal article reporting standards (see Section 3.10). An
external replication occurs when researchers obtain a new sample and
duplicate, insofar as is possible or desirable, the features of the original study
being replicated. New design, measures, and/or data-analysis methods can
also be used to test whether a finding has generality beyond the particular
situation studied in the original work, but any such variations must be clearly
specified in the report.
Researchers conducting an external replication should report sufficient
information to allow readers to determine whether the study was a direct
(exact, literal) replication, approximate replication, or conceptual (construct)
replication. In a direct replication, researchers repeat a study collecting data
from a new sample in a way that duplicates as far as possible the conditions
of the earlier study. A direct replication is called an exact replication or a
literal replication when researchers use procedures that are identical to the
original experiment or duplicated as closely as possible (e.g., with variations
only in the location of the study and the investigators conducting the study).
These forms of replication are useful for establishing that the findings of the
original study are reliable. In an approximate replication (or a modified
replication), researchers incorporate alternative procedures and additional
conditions into the features of the original study; such replications usually
contain the original study design along with some additional study features.
The purpose of an approximate or modified replication may be not only to
replicate a study but also to determine whether some factors not included in
the original formulation have an influence on the outcome. In a conceptual
replication, researchers introduce different techniques and manipulations to
gain theoretical information; it is possible that no features of the initial study
are retained. Researchers may use other labels for or descriptions of
replications (for further exploration of this issue, see National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, 2019); the descriptions provided in this
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 32 ---

section were adapted from the APA Dictionary of Psychology
(https://dictionary.apa.org).
1.5 Quantitative and Qualitative Meta-Analyses
Meta-analysis refers to a collection of techniques in which researchers use the
findings from a group of related studies to draw a general conclusion
(synthesis) based on the extant research on a topic. Individual participant or
subject data are not used in meta-analyses because the data analyzed are at
the study level.
Just as the reporting standards for quantitative and qualitative studies vary
by study design, those for meta-analyses vary by the particular questions
asked in the study and the approaches used to answer those questions.
Because the study is the input unit for a meta-analysis, the studies included
are provided in the reference list and marked with an indicator that shows
they were part of the meta-analysis. This indicator distinguishes studies
included in a meta-analysis from other references. For example, in APA Style
articles, references used in a meta-analysis are preceded by an asterisk (see
Section 9.52).
Quantitative Meta-Analysis. Within quantitative approaches, meta-analyses
generally stipulate a technique in which effect-size estimates from individual
studies are the inputs to the analyses. Meta-analysis is also used to determine
factors that may be related to the magnitude of the outcome in quantitative
studies—for example, design factors (e.g., randomized vs. nonrandomized),
demographic factors (e.g., percentage of the study sample below the poverty
line), and so forth. Meta-analytic reports usually follow the same basic
structure as quantitative studies (see Section 1.1) and contain an introduction
and Method, Results, and Discussion sections. Researchers who use a
quantitative meta-analytic approach should follow the reporting standards for
quantitative meta-analysis (see Section 3.12).
Qualitative Meta-Analysis. Within qualitative research, there are a variety
of approaches to meta-analysis, including qualitative metasynthesis,
metaethnography, metamethod, and critical interpretive synthesis. These
approaches often use strategies from primary qualitative analyses to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 33 ---

synthesize findings across studies. Qualitative meta-analyses can be used to
highlight methodological trends, identify common findings and gaps, develop
new understandings, and propose future directions for an area of research.
Qualitative meta-analytic reports have a structure similar to that of qualitative
primary reports, with the addition of a description of the perspectives and
situatedness of the authors of the primary works included in the analysis.
Qualitative meta-analyses do not entail a singular procedure but rather an
aggregating function common to meta-analytic approaches. Qualitative meta-
analyses are not to be confused with quantitative reviews, in which authors
generate a narrative description of a quantitative literature base. We
recommend referring to those studies as literature reviews or narrative
literature reviews to avoid confusion with qualitative meta-analyses (see
Section 1.6). Researchers who used a qualitative meta-analytic approach
should follow the reporting standards for qualitative meta-analysis (see
Section 3.17).
1.6 Literature Review Articles
Literature review articles (or narrative literature review articles) provide
narrative summaries and evaluations of the findings or theories within a
literature base. The literature base may include qualitative, quantitative,
and/or mixed methods research. Literature reviews capture trends in the
literature; they do not engage in a systematic quantitative or qualitative meta-
analysis of the findings from the initial studies.
In literature review articles, authors should
define and clarify the problem;
summarize previous investigations to inform readers of the state of the
research;
identify relations, contradictions, gaps, and inconsistencies in the
literature; and
suggest next steps in solving the problem.
The components of literature review articles can be arranged in various ways
—for example, by grouping research on the basis of similarity in the concepts
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 34 ---

or theories of interest, methodological similarities among the studies
reviewed, or the historical development of the field.
1.7 Theoretical Articles
Theoretical articles draw from existing research literature to advance theory.
Theoretical articles present empirical information only when it advances the
theoretical issue being explicated. Authors of theoretical articles trace the
development of a theory to expand and refine its constructs, present a new
theory, or analyze an existing theory. Typically, they point out flaws or
demonstrate the advantage(s) of one theory over another. Authors also may
examine a theory’s internal consistency and external validity. The order of
sections in a theoretical article can vary.
1.8 Methodological Articles
Methodological articles present new approaches to research or practice,
modifications of existing methods, or discussions of quantitative and/or
qualitative data analysis. These articles use empirical data (quantitative,
qualitative, or both) only as a means to illustrate an approach to research.
Some use simulated data to demonstrate how methods work under varying
conditions (e.g., different sample sizes, number of variables, level of
nonnormality, size of coefficients).
Methodological articles provide sufficient detail for researchers to assess
the applicability of the methodology and its feasibility for the type of research
problem it is designed to study. Further, these articles allow readers to
compare proposed methods with those in current use. In methodological
articles, highly technical materials (e.g., derivations, proofs, data generation,
computer code, extensive details of simulations) should be presented in
appendices or as supplemental materials to improve overall article
readability. When having detailed information (e.g., parameters used in a
simulation) is necessary for readers to understand the major points being
made, those details should be presented in the text of the article.
1.9 Other Types of Articles
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 35 ---

Additional types of published articles include brief reports, comments on and
replies to previously published articles, book reviews, obituaries, and letters
to the editor. Authors should consult the editors or author guidelines of
individual journals for specific information regarding these kinds of articles.
1.10 Student Papers, Dissertations, and Theses
Although the Publication Manual originated as a guide for authors seeking
publication in scholarly journals, it has been widely adopted by academic
instructors, departments, and institutions that require students to use APA
Style when writing scholarly papers. Students may write the same types of
papers that are professionally published (e.g., literature review articles) or
assignments that fall outside that scope (e.g., dissertations, theses, essays,
response or reaction papers, annotated bibliographies). Likewise, this manual
has historically addressed researchers working in the field of psychology;
however, students and researchers use APA Style in other fields and
disciplines, including social work, nursing, communications, education, and
business. Some journals in these fields require APA Style, and others do not.
Other field-specific requirements may also apply (e.g., nurses may have to
adhere to a nurse’s code of ethics rather than a psychologist’s code of ethics).
Student assignments commonly written at the undergraduate level include
annotated bibliographies, many types of essays, and response or reaction
papers. The descriptions that follow are generally representative of these
types of papers; check with your assigning instructor or institution for
specific guidelines.
Annotated bibliographies consist of reference list entries followed by
short descriptions of the work called annotations. Instructors generally set
most requirements for these papers, but many APA Style guidelines still
apply (see Section 9.51).
Cause-and-effect essays report how specific events lead to particular
results or advocate for a specific position. A clear and strong thesis
provides a solid foundation for this type of essay. The paragraphs are
generally structured by describing each cause and its collateral effect, with
logical transitions between them.
Comparative essays compare and contrast two (or more) items with the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 36 ---

goal of linking disparate items under a central thesis. The paper structure
can be organized to focus on Topic 1 and then Topic 2, or the topics may
be interwoven.
Expository essays follow a multiparagraph structure (e.g., five
paragraphs) and explain or provide information on a specific topic. The
paper structure includes an introduction, body, and a conclusion. Evidence
should be provided to reinforce the written claims detailed in the paper.
Narrative essays convey a story from a clear point of view and include a
beginning, middle, and end. Narrative essays should have a clearly
defined purpose and focus and include concise, evocative language.
Persuasive essays are intended to convince readers to adopt a certain
viewpoint or take a particular action. They present clear arguments,
include logical transitions, and have a similar paper structure to the
expository essay.
Précis are concise summaries in students’ own words of essential points,
statements, or facts from a single work; the length of a précis is typically
about a quarter of the length of the original work. The précis structure
includes a brief thesis and sections that mirror the sections of the original
work, such as Method, Results, and Discussion.
Response or reaction papers summarize one or more works and describe
students’ personal reactions or responses to them, including how the work
or works impacted them, are relevant to their life, and so forth. This type
of paper is typically short (e.g., three pages or so). The first person is used
in describing personal reactions (see Section 4.16).
Dissertations or theses are typically required of graduate students, but
undergraduate students completing advanced research projects may write
similar types of papers. Academic institutions or departments have detailed
guidelines for how to format and write dissertations and theses, and the
requirements and acceptable format vary by discipline. Some dissertations
and theses are hundreds of pages long and contain thorough literature reviews
and exhaustive reference lists, whereas others follow a multiple-article format
consisting of several shorter, related papers that are intended for individual
publication. See Section 12.1 for guidance on adapting a dissertation or thesis
into a journal article.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 37 ---

As mentioned in the introduction to this manual, most of the guidelines in
the Publication Manual can be applied to student papers. However, because
the scope of what constitutes a student paper is broad and flexible, and
because students submit papers to their academic institutions rather than to an
APA journal, we do not designate formal requirements for the nature or
contents of an APA Style student paper. Thus, questions about paper length,
required sections, and so forth are best answered by the instructor or
institution setting the assignment. Students should follow the guidelines and
requirements developed by their instructors, departments, and/or academic
institutions when writing papers, including dissertations and theses; these
guidelines and requirements may entail adaptations of or additions to the
APA Style guidelines described in this manual. We encourage writers,
instructors, departments, and academic institutions using APA Style outside
of the journal publication context to adapt APA Style to fit their needs.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 38 ---

Ethical, Legal, and Professional Standards in
Publishing
In addition to abiding by standards specific to writing and publishing, authors
of scholarly research should also follow ethical standards (e.g., Section 8,
Research and Publication, of the APA Ethical Principles of Psychologists and
Code of Conduct, hereinafter referred to as the APA Ethics Code; APA,
2017a; see also https://www.apa.org/ethics/code) and broader professional
standards when conducting a research study. Moreover, individuals engaged
in conducting, analyzing, or reporting any type of research should have
acquired the requisite skills and experience to do so competently (e.g.,
Section 2, Competence, of the APA Ethics Code; see also the Multicultural
Guidelines: An Ecological Approach to Context, Identity, and
Intersectionality; APA, 2017b).
Ethical and legal principles underlie all scholarly research and writing.
These long-standing principles are designed to achieve the following goals:
ensuring the accuracy of scientific findings,
protecting the rights and welfare of research participants and subjects, and
protecting intellectual property rights.
Writers in the social and behavioral sciences work to uphold these goals and
to follow the principles that have been established by their professional
disciplines. The guidance in this section is drawn from the APA Ethics Code
(APA, 2017a), which applies to all APA members regardless of where they
publish and contains standards that address the reporting and publishing of
scientific data. The APA Ethics Code is not a static document—it is revised
over time to reflect shifts or changes in the understanding and conception of
the principles of beneficence and nonmaleficence, fidelity and responsibility,
integrity, justice, and respect by the scientific community relative to advances
in science and technology and evolving cultural norms. Revised or new
versions of the APA Ethics Code appear on the APA website after adoption
by the APA Council of Representatives.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 39 ---

Ensuring the Accuracy of Scientific Findings
1.11 Planning for Ethical Compliance
Regardless of the type of article, attention to ethical concerns should begin
long before any manuscript is submitted for publication. Among the issues to
carefully consider while research is in the planning stages are those related to
institutional approval, informed consent, deception in research, participant
protections, and data sharing. Most journals, including APA journals, require
authors submitting a manuscript for publication to also submit forms
affirming their compliance with ethical standards for research and publication
and disclosing their conflicts of interest, if any (see Section 12.13 for more
information and a link to the APA ethical compliance form). We encourage
all authors, whether or not they will submit their manuscript to an APA
journal, to consult these ethics resources before beginning their research
project and at regular intervals throughout the research process. To ensure
that they meet ethical standards, before starting a research project, authors
should contact the appropriate IRB or ethical review group for their
institution or country for information on the kinds of research that require
ethics approval, procedures for obtaining ethics approval, ethical and research
requirements, and so forth. Authors not affiliated with a university, hospital,
or other institution with an IRB are still expected to follow ethical standards
in conducting their research and should consult an external IRB if necessary.
For more information on IRBs, see the APA website
(https://on.apa.org/2FuiPJ1).
Authors are encouraged to report in the text of the manuscript the
institutional approvals the study received, as described in the APA journal
article reporting standards in Chapter 3 (see Sections 3.6 and 3.14 and Tables
3.1–3.3). Authors should also be prepared to answer potential questions
related to these issues from editors or reviewers during the review process
(see Section 12.13). As a final step prior to manuscript submission, authors
should also consult the ethical compliance checklist in Section 1.25.
1.12 Ethical and Accurate Reporting of Research Results
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 40 ---

The essence of ethics in all scientific reporting is that authors report the
methods and results of their studies fully and accurately. Therefore, the
ethical and professional issues discussed in this section apply equally to
quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research (see Chapter 3 for
additional reporting standards).
Authors must not fabricate or falsify data (APA Ethics Code Standard
8.10a, Reporting Research Results). Modifying results, including visual
images, to support a theory or hypothesis and omitting troublesome
observations from a report to present a more convincing story are also
prohibited (APA Ethics Code Standard 5.01b, Avoidance of False or
Deceptive Statements). Similarly, representing data-generated hypotheses
(post hoc) as if they were preplanned is a violation of basic ethical principles.
The practice of “omitting troublesome observations” includes
selectively failing to report studies (e.g., in the introduction or Discussion
section) that, although methodologically sound and relevant to the
hypothesis, theory, or research question at hand, had results that do not
support the preferred narrative (i.e., that contrast with results obtained in
the current study);
selectively omitting reports of relevant manipulations, procedures,
measures, or findings within a study, for similar reasons; and
selectively excluding participants or other individual data observations,
without a valid methodological reason, in order to achieve desired results.
To clarify expectations for reporting and help safeguard scientific integrity,
APA (like other scientific organizations) has issued a series of reporting
standards (Appelbaum et al., 2018; Cooper, 2018; Levitt, 2019; Levitt et al.,
2018). These standards, which are discussed in Chapter 3, address many
aspects of the ethical reporting of experiments. They include expectations for
describing all measured variables, for tracking participant flow through a
study (with an accompanying prototype figure; see Figure 7.5 in Section
7.36) so that no participant is selectively excluded without mention, and for
reporting special classes of studies such as clinical trials.
Reporting standards, like the APA Ethics Code, are not static; changes are
continually made to improve how researchers report results. One of the more
recent and important changes for quantitative research reporting is that
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 41 ---

hypotheses should now be stated in three groupings: preplanned–primary,
preplanned–secondary, and exploratory (post hoc). Exploratory hypotheses
are allowable, and there should be no pressure to disguise them as if they
were preplanned. Similarly, qualitative researchers should transparently
describe their expectations at the outset of the research as part of their
research reporting.
1.13 Errors, Corrections, and Retractions After Publication
Careful preparation of manuscripts for publication is essential, but errors can
still appear in the final published article. When errors are substantive enough
to affect readers’ understanding of the research or their interpretation of the
results, authors are responsible for making such errors public.
Corrections. When a correction is needed, the first step is to inform the
editor and the publisher of the journal so that a formal correction notice
(erratum) can be published. The goal of such a notice is to openly and
transparently correct the knowledge base for current and future users of the
information in the published article. A correction notice is usually appended
to the original article’s record in research databases so that readers will
retrieve it when they access either the article or a database’s record for the
article; at times, the article itself may also be corrected. See also APA Ethics
Code Standard 8.10b, Reporting Research Results, as well as Section 12.22
of this manual for further information on when and how to write a correction
notice.
Retractions. Occasionally, the problems with an article are so great (e.g.,
plagiarism, fabrication or falsification of data, belatedly discovered
calculation or measurement errors that change the interpretation of the
findings) that the entire article is retracted by the author or authors, their
institution, or the publisher. Whatever the reason for the retraction, the intent
is to remove the information from the scientific literature and thus avoid
wasting the time and resources of other scientists who might rely on or
attempt to replicate the compromised results. The retracted article may still be
available in databases; however, a retraction notice will accompany it to
notify readers of its status. Authors should avoid citing retracted articles
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 42 ---

unless the citation is essential; if authors do cite a retracted article, its
reference list entry should reflect that the article has been retracted (see the
APA Style website at https://apastyle.apa.org for an example).
1.14 Data Retention and Sharing
Data Retention. Authors are expected to retain the data associated with a
published article in accordance with institutional requirements; funder
requirements; participant agreements; and, when publishing in an APA
journal, the APA Ethics Code (Standard 8.14, Sharing Research Data for
Verification). When planning a research study and before beginning data
collection, authors are encouraged to consider how the data will be retained
(and shared) and to outline clear data-handling procedures in the study
protocol submitted to an IRB or other ethics committee. During the informed
consent process, authors should describe to study participants the data they
intend to collect, save, and/or share with other researchers and obtain their
approval. In qualitative studies, data sharing may not be appropriate because
of confidentiality, consent, and other limitations (see Section 1.15).
Data Sharing. The APA Ethics Code prohibits authors from withholding
data from qualified requesters for verification through reanalysis in most
circumstances (see Standard 8.14, Sharing Research Data for Verification), as
long as the confidentiality of the participants is protected. The APA Ethics
Code permits psychologists to require that a requester be responsible for any
costs associated with the provision of the data. Increasingly, funders are also
requiring that data be shared in an open- or secured-access repository or that
a data-management plan otherwise be spelled out. Authors publishing in an
APA journal are invited to share their data on APA’s portal on the Open
Science Framework (https://osf.io/view/apa/).
Notably, incentives are offered to researchers who wish to share their data,
such as Open Science Badges offered through the Center for Open Science.
Open Science Badges are awarded for the open sharing of materials used by
researchers in the process of data collection and analysis (e.g., instructions,
stimuli, blank questionnaires, treatment manuals, software, interview
protocols, details of procedures, code for mathematical models); source data,
meaning the original written, electronic, or audiovisual records of the study
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 43 ---

participants’ responses (e.g., paper questionnaires, transcripts, output files,
observational notes, video recordings); and analysis data, meaning the
processed version of the source data used to produce the analyses reported in
the paper.
Sharing During Review. Subject to the conditions and exceptions discussed
next, authors are expected to share data, analyses, and/or materials during the
review and publication process if questions arise with respect to the accuracy
of the report. On request, the authors should share the raw data with the
journal’s editor and (if approved by the editor) with reviewers to verify the
reported analyses and data and to assess their rigor. If questions arise about
the integrity or processing of the source data, authors should also share access
to them with the editor on request. Costs of sharing data requested during the
review process should be borne by the authors. Similarly, students should
expect to provide raw data to faculty reviewing their dissertation, thesis, or
research project. A journal editor has the right to deny publication if the
authors refuse to share requested materials or data during the review process.
In the case of student work, refusal to share requested materials or data may
result in a failing grade or defense. See Section 1.15 for additional
considerations when sharing access to data from qualitative studies.
Sharing After Publication. Authors must make their data available after
publication, subject to conditions and exceptions, within the period of
retention specified by their institution, journal, funder, or other supporting
organization. This permits other competent professionals to confirm the
reported analyses using the data on which the authors’ conclusions are based
or to test alternative analyses that address the article’s hypotheses (see APA
Ethics Code Standard 8.14a, Sharing Research Data for Verification, and
Standard 6.01, Documentation of Professional and Scientific Work and
Maintenance of Records). Competent professionals are those who are
currently accountable to a research institution or an educational employer and
who demonstrate sufficient training and credentials to understand the
research study’s background, methods, and analyses. The journal editor may
be asked to determine who qualifies as a competent professional given the
topic of the research. See Section 1.15 for additional considerations when
sharing qualitative research data.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 44 ---

Typically, any additional costs of complying with a request for data
beyond the general standards of internal data maintenance (e.g.,
anonymization, transfer of data, translation) should be borne by the requester,
and these costs should be assessed at a reasonable local rate for the necessary
services and materials. If it emerges that authors are unwilling or unable to
share data for verification within the retention period, the journal’s current
editor may retract the article or issue an Expression of Concern about its
findings according to the policy of the publisher.
Data and materials may sometimes be requested after publication for
purposes beyond the ones outlined previously. Regardless of why the data
and materials are requested, to avoid misunderstanding, it is important that
the researcher requesting data and the researcher providing it come to a
written agreement about the conditions under which the data are to be shared
(see APA Ethics Code Standard 8.14b, Sharing Research Data for
Verification). Generally, such an agreement specifies the limits on how the
shared data may be used (e.g., for verification of already published results,
for inclusion in meta-analytic studies, for secondary analysis), who may have
access to the data (e.g., only the requester, the requester and direct
supervisees, anyone interested with no limits on further sharing), and how the
requester will store and dispose of the data. Furthermore, the agreement
should specify any limits on the dissemination of the results of analyses
performed on the data (e.g., whether they can be published in conference
presentations, internal reports, journal articles, or book chapters) and any
expectations for authorship of publications based on shared data. Data-
sharing arrangements must be entered into with proper consideration of the
rights of the copyright owner (see Section 12.20), participants’ consent,
requirements of funding agencies, requirements of IRBs and other ethics
committees that provided permission to conduct the study, and rules
promulgated by the employer of the holder of the data.
Authors may choose or be required to share data and/or materials openly
by posting them online. Journal editors may set a policy to encourage open
sharing, to require it, and/or to require authors to give a reason why data and
materials cannot be shared (e.g., risk to participant privacy). A permanent
link to any data or materials to be shared openly should be included in the
article, such as in an Open Practices section in the author note (see Section
2.7); the reference for the data set should also be included in the reference list
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 45 ---

of the article (see Section 10.9 for how to cite). Federally funded or grant-
funded research is often subject to requirements for data sharing; see, for
example, the data-sharing policies of the National Institutes of Health (n.d.).
Conditions and Exceptions to Data Sharing. Before sharing or posting data
and materials for any purpose, researchers must remove any personally
identifiable information or code that would make it possible to reestablish a
link to an individual participant’s identity. Sometimes, a unique combination
of demographic or other public information can be used to establish a
participant’s identity, and this possibility must be kept in mind and avoided
as well. Researchers should consult the relevant policies of their institution or
country (e.g., the European Union General Data Protection Regulation
[GDPR], the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act [HIPAA])
for regulations and guidance on conditions for sharing data and deidentifying
protected health information.
In addition to protecting the confidentiality of research participants, some
proprietary arrangements may prohibit the sharing of data and materials (e.g.,
data provided in confidence by a business entity, a coding scheme developed
commercially by the authors). Editors are responsible for setting policy for
their journal about the acceptability for publication of research resting on
proprietary arrangements, given that its accuracy and veracity cannot be
checked in the usual way. This policy may depend on the availability of
alternative ways to satisfy concerns about scientific integrity. For example,
research using a proprietary personality scale may be acceptable if enough
qualified researchers subscribe to it that someone can be found to help with
independent verification.
1.15 Additional Data-Sharing Considerations for Qualitative
Research
The sharing of qualitative data with editors, peers, and other researchers has
distinct considerations in addition to those described in Section 1.14. The
APA Committee on Human Research and numerous qualitative researchers
have expressed concerns about sharing qualitative research data (Data
Sharing Working Group, 2015; DuBois et al., 2018; Guishard, 2018).
Although consensus on how to navigate this issue has not yet been
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 46 ---

established, this section highlights several points that contraindicate or
suggest alternates to data sharing.
Presentation of Raw Data in Research Reports.  Data are typically
reproduced in qualitative research reports. Segments of data (e.g., quotations
from interviews) are presented to exemplify the process of analysis and to
demonstrate the grounding of the findings in the data. Because these raw data
are available for examination in the text of the article, they provide a basis by
which readers, as well as editors and reviewers during the manuscript review
process, can evaluate (and perhaps question) the appropriateness of the
conclusions reached.
Confidentiality Limitations. The obligation to protect participants’
confidentiality can present special ethical issues for qualitative data sharing.
For instance, raw data from a qualitative study involving multiple detailed
stories about participants’ lives may contain details that are necessary to
make the data meaningful but that can be revealing in compromising ways
when triangulated. Qualitative research may also involve intensive case
studies of people who were selected because of their unique attributes.
Although the researchers may try to mask participants’ identities within a
manuscript, it may not be possible to retain all that is meaningful to evaluate
an analysis and at the same time protect participants’ confidentiality if the
complete data set is shared. The high burden on the researchers to remove all
information that can lead to the identification of a participant is unjustifiable
if it produces a set of data that is stripped of meaning. As a result, the
researchers may instead need to withhold data to ensure participant
confidentiality (see McCurdy & Ross, 2018, on the sometimes prohibitive
complications of this process).
Consent Limitations. There is also the consideration that participants may
give consent to participate in a study to a specific group of researchers and
may not extend that consent to other researchers. This may be of particular
concern with vulnerable populations. For instance, lesbian participants may
consent to have their data analyzed by researchers who are in their
community and who seek to support their rights, but that consent may not
apply to other researchers with different motivations. Likewise, some
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 47 ---

researchers spend years developing the trust to collect and analyze data from
a community, and community members may not extend that trust to other
groups of researchers. Indeed, communities may be owners or co-owners of
the data themselves and may refuse to share the data (DuBois et al., 2018;
Tuck & Yang, 2014). As a result, the relationship between the researchers
and the participants is an important ethical consideration and one that may
contraindicate data sharing.
Researchers’ Perspective Limitations. Many qualitative researchers view
their own history and epistemological perspectives as legitimate influences
on the process of inquiry. Thus, when sharing data from qualitative research,
the researchers’ perspectives and experiences must be taken into account.
Research can be compromised if researchers are unreflective or not
purposeful or explicit about this influence. However, when researchers are
aware, they can deliberately elaborate on the investigative attitudes (e.g.,
phenomenological bracketing), personal experiences (e.g., ethnographic
study), research teams (e.g., including researchers from the communities
under analysis), or analytic lenses (e.g., critical theories) that enrich their
research and thereby deepen the acuity they bring to the analytic task
(Guishard et al., 2018). These qualitative researchers would not necessarily
expect editors or external researchers to interpret their research in the same
way when evaluating their analysis because they may not share their
perspectives.
In qualitative inquiry, the researchers are the analytic tool, so those who
have developed an intimate understanding of a data set or who have
developed a perspective to enhance their sensitivity to the data typically are
better attuned to nuances, implicit meanings, and systemic connections. This
means that an editor or external researcher should not expect replication of
the findings and should articulate an appropriate purpose and rationale for
review of the shared data prior to the data being shared. Also, the approach to
investigation selected may signify epistemological commitments of
researchers and their participants, and these values need to be considered and
honored in data-sharing efforts. In any case, a review of the data would need
to be conducted with a keen awareness of the distinct epistemological
positions and analytic processes within qualitative research.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 48 ---

1.16 Duplicate and Piecemeal Publication of Data
Reports in the literature must accurately reflect the independence of separate
research efforts. Both duplicate and piecemeal publication of data
misrepresent the amount of original research in the repository of scientific
knowledge. Duplicate publication is the publication of the same data or ideas
in two separate works. Piecemeal publication is the unnecessary splitting of
the findings from one research effort into multiple works.
Duplicate Publication. Misrepresentation of data as original when they have
been published previously is specifically prohibited by the APA Ethics Code
(Standard 8.13, Duplicate Publication of Data). Duplicate publication distorts
the knowledge base by making it appear that more information is available
than actually exists. It also wastes scarce resources (journal pages and the
time and efforts of editors and reviewers). The prohibition against duplicate
publication is especially critical for the cumulative knowledge of the field.
Duplicate publication can give the erroneous impression that findings are
more replicable than is the case or that particular conclusions are more
strongly supported than is warranted by the cumulative evidence. Duplicate
publication can also lead to copyright violations; authors cannot assign the
copyright for the same material to more than one publisher. When submitting
a manuscript for publication, authors are obligated to disclose whether they
have posted the manuscript online, either in full or in substantial part; some
editors may consider such posting to be prior publication.
Examples of and Exceptions to Duplicate Publication. Authors should not
submit manuscripts that have been published in whole or in substantial part
elsewhere, including manuscripts with substantially similar form or content
to their previously published works. This policy also applies to translations;
authors are not permitted to publish research in one language and then
translate the article into another language and publish it again. Authors in
doubt about what constitutes prior publication should consult the editor of the
journal to which they are submitting their manuscript.
The policy regarding duplicate publication also means that the same or
overlapping material that has appeared in a publication offered for public
sale, such as conference proceedings or a book chapter, should not be
republished elsewhere because these sources are considered widely available.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 49 ---

For example, a brief report is published in an APA journal with the
understanding that an extended report will not be published elsewhere
because APA brief reports include sufficient descriptions of methodology to
allow for replication; the brief report is the archival record for the work.
The policy regarding duplicate publication has some exclusions.
Manuscripts previously published in abstracted form (e.g., in conference
proceedings) or in a periodical with limited circulation or availability (e.g.,
report by a university department or government agency, dissertation) can be
published again in a venue of wide circulation (e.g., in a journal). Consult a
journal editor to determine whether a study reported in a dissertation or thesis
or posted in a preprint repository could benefit from peer review and
publication as a journal article.
Similarly, it is not considered duplicate publication to reanalyze already
published data in light of new theories or methodologies, if the reanalysis is
clearly labeled as such and provides new insights into the phenomena being
studied. The policy also does not apply to follow-up studies; for example,
researchers may first report the initial findings from a clinical trial and
subsequently report results of a follow-up assessment 2 years after the trial’s
completion.
Acknowledging and Citing Previous Work. Authors sometimes want to
publish what is essentially the same material in more than one venue to reach
different audiences. Such duplicate publication can rarely be justified, given
the ready accessibility of published works online. If authors think it is
justified, the article must include a reference to the original report—both to
inform editors, reviewers, and readers and to fulfill the authors’ obligations to
the copyright holder of the previous work.
If it is deemed scientifically necessary to represent previously published
material—for instance, to report new analyses or to frame new research that
follows up on previous work from the authors’ laboratory—the following
conditions must be met:
1. The amount of duplicated material must be small relative to the total
length of the text.
2. The authors must clearly acknowledge in the author note and in all
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 50 ---

relevant sections of the article (e.g., Method, Results) that the
information was reported previously, and the previous work must be
cited.
3. The authors must provide a copyright attribution for any reprinted or
adapted tables and figures and may need to secure permission from the
copyright holder as well (see Sections 12.14–12.18).
4. The original work must be clearly and accurately cited in the reference
list (see also the discussion on self-plagiarism in Sections 1.17 and
8.3).
When the original work has multiple authors and the authorship of the new
work is not identical, all authors of the original work must provide
appropriate copyright permission (see Section 12.20) and receive agreed-
upon credit (e.g., in an author note; see Section 2.7) for their contributions in
the later publication.
Piecemeal Publication. Authors are obligated to present work as
parsimoniously and completely as possible within the space constraints of
journal articles. Data that can be meaningfully combined within a single
article should be presented together to enhance effective communication.
Piecemeal, or fragmented, publication of research findings can be
misleading if multiple reports appear to represent independent instances of
data collection or analyses; distortion of the scientific literature, especially in
reviews or meta-analyses, may result. Piecemeal publication of the results
from a single study is therefore undesirable unless there is a clear reason for
doing so. It may be quite difficult to determine whether a valid reason exists;
therefore, authors who submit manuscripts based on studies or data presented
in other published or submitted works should inform the journal editor of the
source and extent of the overlap, and they should detail how their submission
builds on the previous reports. Whether the publication of two or more
reports based on the same or on closely related research constitutes
fragmented publication is a matter of editorial judgment.
Multiple Publications From Large-Scale, Longitudinal Projects and
Qualitative and Mixed Methods Research. There are times when it is both
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 51 ---

necessary and appropriate to publish multiple reports. Multidisciplinary
projects often address diverse topics and answer different questions; thus,
publishing the results in a single article may be inappropriate. Similarly,
researchers sometimes design studies with the purpose of addressing distinct
theoretical questions using the same instruments; if written as separate
research reports, each report should make a unique contribution and not
overlap substantially with the others or with previously published material.
Researchers should consider at the outset of data collection how the data will
be presented (e.g., in one report vs. multiple reports); although new research
questions or analyses may arise in the process of analyzing the data,
researchers should not fish through the data for the sole purpose of extracting
additional studies. Although all reports stem from the same overall project,
the introduction, Results, and Discussion sections of each report would be
unique, and at least some aspects of the Method section would be unique as
well.
Longitudinal or large-scale studies are another instance when multiple
publications are often appropriate because the data at different time points
make independent scientific contributions. Further, useful knowledge should
be made available to others as soon as possible, which is precluded if
publication is delayed until all the studies are complete.
Multiple reports may be needed in some qualitative and mixed methods
research when qualitative data collection and analysis produce volumes of
findings that are not appropriate for publication in a single article—for
instance, when investigators conduct interviews to explore questions that
have distinct purposes and are meaningful in relation to separate literatures
and concerns. With mixed methods studies, authors might publish multiple
articles, such as a qualitative study, a quantitative study, and a mixed
methods overview study, each focusing on new insights based on findings
across the methods.
When authors create multiple reports from studies of this sort, they are
obligated to cite prior reports on the project to help readers understand the
work accurately. For example, in the early years of a longitudinal study, the
authors might cite all previous publications from it. For a well-known or
long-term longitudinal study, the authors might cite the original publication, a
more recent summary, and earlier articles that focused on the same or related
scientific questions addressed in the current report. It is useful to distinguish
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 52 ---

between data sets that are complete and data sets that are still in collection. It
is not necessary to repeat the description of the design and methods of prior
reports in their entirety; authors may refer readers to an earlier publication for
this detailed information. It is important, however, to provide sufficient
information so that readers can evaluate the current report. It is also important
to clarify the degree of sample overlap in multiple reports from large studies.
Again, authors should inform and consult with the journal editor before
submitting a manuscript of this type.
Whether the publication of two or more reports based on the same or
closely related research constitutes piecemeal publication is a matter of
editorial judgment, as is the determination of whether the manuscript meets
other publication criteria. Authors should note in the manuscript all prior
works related to the study by including them in the reference list and citing
them in the text (see the previous section on acknowledging and citing
previous work). When submitting the manuscript, authors must inform the
journal editor in a cover letter of any similar manuscripts that have already
been published, accepted for publication, or submitted for concurrent
consideration to the same journal or elsewhere. The editor can then make an
informed judgment as to whether the submitted manuscript includes
sufficient new information to warrant consideration. If the authors’ identities
are masked for review, references to previous work should be concealed as
well until after the review process.
If, during the review or production process, a manuscript is discovered to
be in violation of duplicate or piecemeal publication policies and the authors
failed to inform the editor of the potential for violation, then the manuscript
can be rejected without further consideration. If such a violation is discovered
after publication in an APA journal, appropriate action, such as retraction by
the publisher or notice of duplicate publication, can be taken.
Republication of an Article as a Book Chapter. Journal articles sometimes
are revised for publication as book chapters. Authors have a responsibility to
reveal to readers that portions of the new work were previously published and
to cite and reference the source. If copyright is owned by a publisher or by
another person, authors must obtain permission to reprint or adapt the work
and include a copyright attribution in the chapter (see Sections 12.14–12.18).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 53 ---

1.17 Implications of Plagiarism and Self-Plagiarism
Plagiarism is the act of presenting the words, ideas, or images of another as
one’s own; it denies authors credit where credit is due. Whether deliberate or
unintentional, plagiarism violates ethical standards in scholarship (see APA
Ethics Code Standard 8.11, Plagiarism) and has profound real-world effects.
Authors who try to publish plagiarized work face rejection from publication,
as well as possible sanction by professional bodies, censure in their place of
employment, and/or exclusion from applying for federal funding. Students
who turn in a plagiarized assignment face a failing grade, as well as possible
censure from a student or university honor board, suspension, or expulsion.
Self-plagiarism is the act of presenting one’s own previously published work
as original; it misleads readers and falsely inflates the number of publications
on a topic. Like plagiarism, self-plagiarism is unethical. To learn more about
what constitutes plagiarism and self-plagiarism and how to avoid both, see
Sections 8.2 and 8.3.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 54 ---

Protecting the Rights and Welfare of Research
Participants and Subjects
1.18 Rights and Welfare of Research Participants and Subjects
The APA Ethics Code (Sections 3 and 8) specifies the standards
psychologists are to follow when conducting research with human
participants and nonhuman animal subjects. Both humans and nonhuman
animals in research studies have the right to ethical and humane treatment.
Research with human participants involves additional rights and welfare
protections; for example, researchers are required to
obtain informed consent, assent, or permission, as appropriate, using
language that is reasonably understood by research participants;
avoid or minimize participants’ exposure to
physical, emotional, or psychological harm;
exploitative relationships;
undue influence based on the researchers’ status, power, or authority;
excessive or inappropriate inducements to participate; and
unjustified or unduly delayed deception or debriefing procedures; and
take adequate measures to prevent unauthorized access to or release of
participant data to the public or other researchers not specified in the
informed consent (e.g., by obtaining prior written agreement for sharing
of research data).
Nonhuman animal subjects are to be cared for humanely and provided with
healthful conditions during their stay in research facilities. The protocol for
research with nonhuman animals must be reviewed by an appropriate animal
care committee (e.g., an IACUC) before it is conducted to ensure that the
procedures are appropriate and humane (APA, 2012a).
Researchers who are APA members, regardless of field, are required to
certify that they have followed ethical standards as a precondition of
publishing their articles in most journals, including APA journals (see
Section 12.13). We encourage authors to include in the text of their
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 55 ---

manuscripts certifications that their research followed ethical and institutional
guidelines, as described in the APA journal article reporting standards in
Chapter 3. For instance, if research participants consented to having their
identifying information disclosed (e.g., their name), the authors should
indicate in the Method section of the article that consent was given. Failure to
follow these standards can be grounds for rejecting a manuscript for
publication or for retracting a published article.
1.19 Protecting Confidentiality
When authors describe their research, they are prohibited from disclosing
“confidential, personally identifiable information concerning their
clients/patients, students, research participants, organizational clients, or
other recipients of their services” (APA Ethics Code Standard 4.07, Use of
Confidential Information for Didactic or Other Purposes) unless participants
give documented consent to disclose their identities. The exact requirements
for documentation vary depending on the nature of the consent obtained and
the type of study.
Confidentiality in case studies can, at times, be difficult to achieve. For
example, the researcher might obtain written consent from the subject of the
report to publish the study. The researcher must be careful not to exploit the
subject—for example, when the researcher has supervisory, evaluative, or
other authority over them, as in the case of a client, patient, supervisee,
employee, or organizational client (see APA Ethics Code Standard 3.08,
Exploitative Relationships, and Standard 3.05, Multiple Relationships).
In some types of qualitative research (e.g., participatory action research,
autoethnography), the participants may be investigators and authors, meaning
they will be personally identifiable. Participant-authors or participant-
investigators should retain control over what information about them is
presented in the report (see Section 1.15 for more on sharing data from
qualitative research).
Strategies to Disguise Identifying Material. Researchers can protect
confidentiality by disguising some aspects of the data so that neither the
subject nor third parties (e.g., family members, employers) are identifiable.
Four main strategies are used: (a) altering specific characteristics, (b) limiting
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 56 ---

the description of specific characteristics, (c) obfuscating case detail by
adding extraneous material, and (d) using composite descriptions. Disguising
identifying information must be done carefully because it is essential not to
change variables in a way that would lead readers to draw false conclusions
(Sweeney et al., 2015). For example, altering a person’s gender in a case
illustrating a promising therapy for sexual assault trauma might compromise
its educative value if the person’s gender played a significant role in the
treatment. Subject details should be omitted only if they are not essential to
the phenomenon being described. Confidentiality, however, should never be
sacrificed for clinical or scientific accuracy. Reports that cannot adequately
disguise identifiable subject information should not be submitted for
publication. For examples of how to incorporate case material (e.g.,
quotations from research participants) into the text, see Section 8.36.
Data Deidentification. Extra steps may be needed to protect participants’
confidentiality when working with data sets containing multiple forms of data
or protected health information. The HIPAA website provides guidance on
deidentifying data (see https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-
professionals/privacy/special-topics/de-identification/index.html).
Researchers have also developed methods for deidentifying various kinds of
data; see, for example, the work of the Data Privacy Lab
(https://dataprivacylab.org/projects/index.html).
1.20 Conflict of Interest
In the APA Ethics Code (Standard 3.06, Conflict of Interest), conflict of
interest is defined broadly as involving “personal, scientific, professional,
legal, financial, or other interests or relationships” that could negatively affect
professional conduct or cause harm to persons with whom a professional
interacts (see also Sections 2.7 and 12.13). Thus, the main concerns when a
conflict of interest arises in publishing are the impairment of objectivity in
both performing and evaluating research and the potential for harm to or
exploitation of research participants.
Author Interest. In all scientific disciplines, professional communications
are presumed to be based on objective and unbiased interpretations of
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 57 ---

evidence. Transparency about researchers’ positions in relation to their
evidence and interpretations is central. For example, authors’ economic and
commercial interests in products or services used in a study or discussed in a
manuscript may color their ability to collect evidence and interpret it with
fidelity. Although the presence of such interests does not necessarily
constitute an unethical conflict of interest per se, the integrity of the field
requires open and honest disclosure of the possibilities of such influences
when they may exist. In general, an author’s safest and most transparent
course of action is to disclose in an author note activities and relationships
that, if known to others, might be viewed as a conflict of interest, even if the
author does not believe that any conflict or bias exists.
Whether an interest is significant depends on individual circumstances and
cannot be defined by a threshold amount. Holdings in a company through a
mutual fund are not ordinarily sufficient to warrant disclosure, whereas
salaries, research grants, consulting fees, and personal stock holdings should
be disclosed. Participation on a board of directors or any other relationship
with an entity that is in some way part of the research project should also be
carefully considered for possible disclosure.
In addition to disclosing possible influences that might lead authors to
support certain findings, authors should also consider disclosing when
circumstances could influence them against a product, service, facility, or
person. For example, having a copyright or royalty interest in a competing
psychological test or assessment protocol might be seen as a possible source
of negative bias against another test instrument (American Educational
Research Association et al., 2014).
Editor and Reviewer Interest. For editors and reviewers who evaluate a
given manuscript for publication, conflicts of interest are defined more
broadly than economic interests and are usually dealt with by recusal rather
than disclosure. It is the responsibility of editors and reviewers to recognize
their conflicts of interest, disclose these conflicts to the person who assigned
them the manuscript, and either decline the request or ask the assigning
person to make a decision.
For editors and reviewers, conflicts of interest may be economic, as
described previously for authors. If the main topic of an article has direct
implications for a commercial interest of the editor or reviewer, that
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 58 ---

individual should decline the request to review the article. Any other
economic conflicts that bear on the review are for the person who assigned
the manuscript to decide.
Conflicts of interest for editors and reviewers may also take the form of
personal connections. Having a family tie, marital relationship, close
friendship, or romantic connection with an author is generally seen as a
conflict of interest. Professional relationships also may constitute a conflict of
interest if, for example, one of the authors is a coauthor, past or current
collaborator, past doctoral student or supervisor, or current colleague of the
editor or reviewer. Editors-in-chief should set policy for their journal about
whether collaboration-based conflicts extend for a lifetime or elapse after a
certain number of years have passed. If an editor or reviewer guesses the
identity of an anonymized author, and there is potential for a personal
conflict, the editor or reviewer should make the assigning person aware of
this.
Although differences of scientific or political opinion may influence
evaluation of a manuscript, it is impractical to define any opinion-based
agreement or disagreement as constituting a disqualifying conflict of interest.
However, if an editor or reviewer finds that their point of view is
fundamentally opposed to the rationale or approach of a manuscript, they
should let the assigning person know this. For their part, editors should seek
opinions from reviewers with a variety of positions when evaluating a
manuscript known to be controversial.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 59 ---

Protecting Intellectual Property Rights
1.21 Publication Credit
Authorship is reserved for persons who make a substantial contribution to
and who accept responsibility for a published work. Individuals should take
authorship credit only for work they have performed or to which they have
substantially contributed (APA Ethics Code Standard 8.12a, Publication
Credit). Authorship encompasses, therefore, not only persons who do the
writing but also those who have made substantial scientific contributions to a
study. Substantial professional contributions may include formulating the
problem or hypothesis, structuring the experimental study design, organizing
and conducting the analysis, or interpreting the results and findings. Those
who so contribute are listed as authors in the byline. Lesser contributions,
which do not constitute authorship, may be acknowledged in the author note
(see Section 2.7; see also a taxonomy of authorship in the natural sciences
called CRediT at https://casrai.org/credit). Lesser contributions may include
such supportive functions as designing or building the study apparatus,
suggesting or advising about the analysis, collecting or entering the data,
modifying or structuring a computer program, recruiting participants, and
obtaining animals. Conducting routine observations or diagnoses for use in
studies does not constitute authorship. Combinations of these (and other)
tasks, however, may justify authorship.
As early as practicable in a research project, the collaborators should
decide which tasks are necessary for the project’s completion, how the work
will be divided, which tasks or combination of tasks merits authorship credit,
and on what level credit will be given (first author, second author, etc.).
Collaborators may need to reassess authorship credit and order if relative
contributions change in the course of the project (and its publication). This is
especially true in faculty–student collaborations when students need more
intensive supervision than originally anticipated, when additional analyses
are required beyond the scope of a student’s current level of training, or when
the level of the student’s contribution exceeds what was originally
anticipated.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 60 ---

When a manuscript is accepted for publication, each person listed in the
byline must verify in writing that they (a) agree to serve as an author, (b)
approve the order of authorship presented in the byline, and (c) accept the
responsibilities of authorship.
1.22 Order of Authors
Professional Authors. Authors are responsible for determining authorship
and for specifying the order in which two or more authors’ names appear in
the byline. Principal authorship and the order of authorship credit should
accurately reflect the relative contributions of persons involved (APA Ethics
Code Standard 8.12b, Publication Credit). Relative status (e.g., department
chair, junior faculty member, student) should not determine the order of
authorship. The general rule is that the name of the principal contributor
appears first, with subsequent names appearing in order of decreasing
contribution. In some cases, another principal contributor appears last. These
conventions can vary from field to field and from journal to journal. Novice
authors are advised to contact the editor of the journal to which they are
submitting a manuscript for guidance. If authors played equal roles in the
research and publication of their study, they may wish to note this in the
author note (see Section 2.7).
Professional–Student Collaborations. Because doctoral work is expected to
result in an independent and original contribution to the field by the student,
except under rare circumstances, the student should be listed as the principal
author of any papers with multiple authors that are substantially based on
their dissertation (APA Ethics Code Standard 8.12c, Publication Credit).
Unusual exceptions to doctoral student first authorship might occur when the
dissertation is published as part of a collection of studies involving other
researchers or when work on a final manuscript was performed substantially
by a coauthor. Whether students merit principal authorship on papers based
on master’s-level or other predoctoral research will depend on their specific
contributions to the research. When master’s-level students make the primary
contribution to a study, they should be listed as the first author. Students may
also collaborate with a faculty member on a faculty-originated project as a
way to acquire the skills to make a primary scientific contribution in their
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 61 ---

master’s thesis. In such cases, authorship should be determined by the
relative contributions of the student and faculty member to the project
(Fisher, 2017).
Student Assignments. When students contribute equally to a group project
that will be submitted to an instructor (not for publication), students may put
their names in any order in the byline (e.g., alphabetical order, reverse
alphabetical order).
1.23 Authors’ Intellectual Property Rights During Manuscript
Review
Editorial review of a manuscript requires that the editors and reviewers
circulate and discuss the manuscript. During the review process, the
manuscript is a confidential and privileged document. Editors and reviewers
may not, without the authors’ explicit permission, quote from a manuscript
under review or circulate copies of it to others, including graduate or
postdoctoral students, for any purpose other than editorial review (APA
Ethics Code Standard 8.15, Reviewers; see Section 12.7 for a detailed
discussion of the peer review process). If a reviewer wishes to consult with a
colleague about some aspect of the manuscript, the reviewer must request
permission from the editor prior to approaching the colleague. Publishers
have different policies on how editorial review works, and reviewers should
consult the editor for any questions. In addition, editors and reviewers may
not use material from an unpublished manuscript to advance their own or
others’ work without the authors’ consent.
1.24 Authors’ Copyright on Unpublished Manuscripts
Authors are protected by federal statute against unauthorized use of their
unpublished manuscripts. Under the Copyright Act of 1976 (Title 17 of the
United States Code), an unpublished work is copyrighted “automatically
from the moment the original work of authorship is fixed” (U.S. Copyright
Office, 2017, p. 1), referring to the moment in which a work exists in any
tangible form—for example, typed on a page. Until authors formally transfer
copyright (see Section 12.20), they own the copyright on an unpublished
manuscript; all exclusive rights due the copyright owner of a published work
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 62 ---

are also due the authors of an unpublished work. To ensure copyright
protection, publishers include the copyright notice on all published works
(e.g., Copyright [year] by [name of copyright holder]). The notice need not
appear on unpublished works; nonetheless, it is recommended that authors
include a copyright notice on all works, whether published or not.
Registration of copyright (e.g., with the U.S. Copyright Office at
https://www.copyright.gov/registration/) provides a public record and is
usually a prerequisite for any legal action.
1.25 Ethical Compliance Checklist
The following checklist provides general guidance for ensuring compliance
with ethics requirements.
Ethical Compliance Checklist
Have you obtained written permission for use of unpublished
instruments, procedures, or data that other researchers might consider
theirs (proprietary)?
Have you properly cited all published works, unpublished works, and
ideas and creations of others presented in your manuscript? Have you
secured needed permissions and written copyright attributions for
items that require them?
Have you reported institutional review of your study or studies in the
Method section of your manuscript?
Are you prepared to answer editorial questions about the informed
consent, assent, and/or debriefing procedures you used?
If your study involved nonhuman animal subjects, are you prepared to
answer editorial questions about the humane care and treatment of
such animals?
Have all authors reviewed the manuscript and agreed on responsibility
for its content?
Have you adequately protected the confidentiality of research
participants, clients/patients, organizations, third parties, or others who
were a source of information presented in the manuscript?
Have you released or shared participant data only in accordance with
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 63 ---

the agreement specified in the informed consent for your study?
If your study was a clinical trial and has been registered, have you
reported its registration in the author note and in the text?
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 64 ---

2
PAPER ELEMENTS AND
FORMAT
Consistency in the order, structure, and format of paper elements allows
readers to focus on a paper’s content rather than its presentation. Following
APA Style guidelines to achieve consistency in the presentation of paper
elements is essential to crafting an effective scholarly work.
In this chapter, we provide an overview of the elements of a paper,
including how to structure, format, and organize them. These guidelines
apply broadly to any APA Style paper and may be especially useful to
students or researchers who are not familiar with APA Style. For researchers
preparing manuscripts for publication, more in-depth guidelines on journal
article reporting standards (JARS) for quantitative, qualitative, and mixed
methods research are discussed in Chapter 3. Students can find guidance on
dissertations and theses in Sections 1.10 and 12.1. Sample APA Style papers
are included at the end of this chapter; additional sample papers are available
on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 65 ---

Required Elements
2.1 Professional Paper Required Elements
Paper elements appear in various combinations depending on the nature of
the work. Manuscripts submitted for publication (see Sections 1.1–1.9)
should always include a title page (see Section 2.3), which contains the paper
title (see Section 2.4), author names and affiliations (see Sections 2.5–2.6),
and author note (see Section 2.7); page headers with a running head and page
numbers (see Sections 2.8 and 2.18); an abstract (see Section 2.9); text (see
Section 2.11); and a reference list (see Section 2.12). Papers may also include
keywords (see Section 2.10), footnotes (see Section 2.13), tables (see Chapter
7), figures (see Chapter 7), appendices (see Section 2.14), and/or
supplemental materials (see Section 2.15). Authors seeking publication
should refer to the journal’s instructions for authors or manuscript submission
guidelines for any requirements that are different from or in addition to those
specified by APA Style.
2.2 Student Paper Required Elements
Student papers (e.g., narrative essays, reaction or response papers, literature
review papers; see Section 1.10) usually include, at minimum, a title page
(see Sections 2.3–2.6), page numbers (see Section 2.18), text (see Section
2.11), and a reference list (see Section 2.12). They may also have tables (see
Chapter 7), figures (see Chapter 7), and/or appendices (see Section 2.14).
Student papers do not typically include a running head, an author note, or an
abstract, unless specifically requested by the instructor or institution. Student
papers have a student-specific version of the title page (see Section 2.3).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 66 ---

Paper Elements
2.3 Title Page
A title page is required for all APA Style papers. There are both professional
and student versions of the title page.
Professional Title Page. The professional title page (see Figure 2.1) includes
the following elements:
title of the paper (see Section 2.4),
name of each author of the paper (the byline; see Section 1.22 for
determining the order of authorship and Section 2.5 for formatting the
byline),
affiliation for each author (see Section 2.6),
author note (see Section 2.7),
running head (also included on all pages; see Section 2.8), and
page number (also included on all pages; see Section 2.18).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 67 ---

Figure 2.1 Sample Professional Title Page
See the section indicated for each element for formatting instructions.
Student Title Page. Students should follow the guidelines of their instructor
or institution when determining which title page format is most appropriate to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 68 ---

use. If not instructed otherwise, students should include the following
elements on the title page (see Figure 2.2):
title of the paper (see Section 2.4);
name of each author of the paper (the byline; see Section 1.22 for
determining the order of authorship and Section 2.5 for formatting the
byline);
affiliation for each author, typically the university attended (including the
name of any department or division; see Section 2.6);
course number and name for which the paper is being submitted (use the
format shown on institutional materials; e.g., PSY204, PSYC 4301,
NURS 303);
instructor name (check with the instructor for the preferred form; e.g., Dr.
Hülya F. Akış; Professor Levin; Kwame Osei, PhD; Mariam Sherzai,
RN);
assignment due date, written in the month, date, and year format used in
your country (usually November 4, 2020, or 4 November 2020; we
recommend spelling out the month, although 2020-11-04 is the format in
countries that use the international standard date); and
page number (also included on all pages; see Section 2.18).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 69 ---

Figure 2.2 Sample Student Title Page
See the sections for the title, byline, affiliation, and page numbers for
formatting instructions for these elements. Place the course number and
name, instructor name, and assignment due date on separate lines, centered
and in that order, below the affiliation (see Section 2.21 for more on line
spacing).
2.4 Title
The title should summarize the main idea of the paper simply and, if possible,
in a way that is engaging for readers. For research papers, it should be a
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 70 ---

concise statement of the main topic of the research and should identify the
variables or theoretical issues under investigation and the relationship
between them. Although there is no prescribed limit for title length in APA
Style, authors are encouraged to keep their titles focused and succinct.
Research has shown an association between simple, concise titles and higher
numbers of article downloads and citations (Hallock & Dillner, 2016; Jamali
& Nikzad, 2011).
Include essential terms in the title to enhance readers’ ability to find your
work during a search and to aid abstracting and indexing in databases if the
work is published. Avoid words that serve no purpose; they increase the title
length and can mislead indexers. For example, the words “method” and
“results” do not normally appear in a title, nor should such phrases as “a
study of” or “an experimental investigation of.” Occasionally terms such as
“research synthesis,” “meta-analysis,” or “fMRI study” convey important
information for potential readers and are included in the title. Avoid using
abbreviations in a title; spelling out all terms helps ensure accurate, complete
indexing of the article and allows readers to more readily comprehend its
meaning. When an animal name—for example, “Rat”—is in the title, also
include the scientific name in italics and parentheses—(Rattus norvegicus).
See Table 2.1 for examples of effective versus ineffective paper titles.
Table 2.1 Effective and Ineffective Paper Titles
Effective title Ineffective title Rationale
Effect of Depression on the
Decision to Join a Clinical Trial
A Study of the Effect of
Depression on the
Decision to Join a
Clinical Trial
More direct: Unnecessary words have
been cut.
Why and When Hierarchy
Impacts Team Effectiveness: A
Meta-Analytic Integration
Hierarchy and Team
Effectiveness
More precise: The relationship between
variables has been clarified; the type of
research (meta-analysis) has been
specified.
Closing Your Eyes to Follow
Your Heart: Avoiding Information
to Protect a Strong Intuitive
Preference
Closing Your Eyes to
Follow Your Heart
More informative: A creative title has
been balanced with a substantive
subtitle.
Format. The paper title should be in title case (see Section 6.17), bold,
centered, and positioned in the upper half of the title page (e.g., three or four
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 71 ---

lines down from the top margin of the page). Move the title up to
accommodate a longer author note if necessary. If the title is longer than one
line, the main title and the subtitle can be separated on double-spaced lines if
desired. Note that the paper title also appears at the top of the first page of
text (see Sections 2.11 and 2.28).
2.5 Author Name (Byline)
Every paper includes the name of the author or authors—the byline. The
preferred form of an author’s name is first name, middle initial(s), and last
name; this form reduces the likelihood of mistaken identity (e.g., that authors
with the same first and last names are the same person). To assist researchers
and librarians, use the same form of your name for publication throughout
your career when possible; for example, do not use a middle initial on one
paper and omit the initial on a different paper. Determining whether, for
example, Marisol G. Rodríguez is the same person as M. G. Rodríguez can be
difficult, particularly when citations span years and institutional affiliations
change. If you change your name during your career, present your new name
in a consistent form as well. Omit all professional titles (e.g., Dr., Professor)
and academic degrees or licenses (e.g., PhD, EdD, MD, MA, RN, MSW,
LCSW) from the byline.
Format. Write the byline on the title page after the paper title. Include one
blank double-spaced line between the paper title and the byline. Follow these
guidelines for byline formatting:
If the paper has one author, write the author name centered and in
standard (i.e., nonbold, nonitalic) font.
If the paper has multiple authors, order the names of the authors according
to their contributions. Write all names on the same line (flowing onto
additional lines if needed), centered, and in standard font. For two authors,
separate the names with the word “and”; for three or more authors,
separate the names with commas and include “and” before the final
author’s name.
For names with suffixes, separate the suffix from the rest of the name with
a space, not a comma (e.g., Roland J. Thorpe Jr.).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 72 ---

See Table 2.2 for examples of how to set up author bylines and affiliations.
Table 2.2 Examples of Author Bylines and Affiliations
Variation Example
One author, one affiliation Maggie C. Leonard
Department of Psychology, George Mason University
One author, two affiliations Andrew K. Jones-Willoughby
School of Psychology, University of Sydney
Center for Behavioral Neuroscience, American University
One author, no institutional affiliation Isabel de Vries
Rochester, New York, United States
Two authors, shared affiliation Mackenzie J. Clement and Talia R. Cummings
College of Nursing, Michigan State University
Two authors, different affiliations Wilhelm T. Weber1 and Latasha P. Jackson2
1 Max Planck Institute for Human Development, Berlin,
Germany
2 College of Education, University of Georgia
Three or more authors, shared
affiliation
Madina Wahab, DeAndre L. Washington Jr., and Julian H. Lee
School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley
Three or more authors, different
affiliations
Savannah C. St. John1, Fen-Lei Chang2, 3, and Carlos O.
Vásquez III1
1 Educational Testing Service, Princeton, New Jersey, United
States
2 MRC Cognition and Brain Sciences Unit, Cambridge,
England
3 Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge
2.6 Author Affiliation
The affiliation identifies where the author(s) worked (or studied, in the case
of student authors) when the work was conducted, which is usually a
university or other institution. Include a dual affiliation only if two
institutions contributed substantial support to the study. Include no more than
two affiliations per author. If the affiliation has changed since the work was
completed, give the current affiliation in the author note (see Section 2.7).
Abide by these guidelines when presenting affiliations:
Academic affiliations (e.g., universities, teaching hospitals affiliated with
a university) should include the name of any department or division and
the name of the institution, separated by a comma. It is not necessary to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 73 ---

include the location of the institution unless the location is part of the
institution’s name.
Nonacademic institutional affiliations (e.g., hospitals not affiliated with a
university, independent laboratories, other organizations) should include
the name of any department or division, the name of the institution, and
the location of the institution, separated by commas.
Authors who are in private practice or who have no institutional affiliation
should include their location.
When providing a location (as for nonacademic institutions and private
practices), give the city; state, province, or territory as applicable; and
country. Spell out state, province, and territory names rather than
abbreviating them.
Format. The format of the affiliation depends on the number of authors and
whether different authors have different affiliations, as follows. Begin the
affiliation(s) on a new line after the byline. Place different affiliations on their
own lines. Do not add blank lines between affiliations or between the byline
and the first affiliation. See Table 2.2 for examples of how to set up author
bylines and affiliations.
All Authors Share One Affiliation. If the paper has one author with one
affiliation, or if all authors of a multiauthored paper share one affiliation,
include the affiliation centered and in standard font on its own line, beginning
one line below the byline. Do not include a superscript numeral.
All Authors Share Two Affiliations. If the paper has one author with two
affiliations, or if all authors of a multiauthored paper share the same two
affiliations, include each affiliation centered and in standard font on its own
line, beginning one line below the byline. Do not include superscript
numerals.
Multiple Authors With Different Affiliations. If the paper has two or more
authors with different affiliations (even if only the department is different
within the same university), use superscript Arabic numerals to connect
author names to the appropriate affiliation(s). List authors’ affiliations in the
order the authors appear in the byline; for example, for a paper with two
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 74 ---

authors who have different affiliations, list the affiliation of the first author
first, followed by the affiliation of the second author, with each affiliation
centered and in standard font on its own line, beginning one line below the
byline. Place a superscript numeral 1 after the first author’s surname, without
a space between the name and the numeral (when a paper has three or more
authors and thus commas appear after author names, put the numeral after the
surname and before the comma). Then put a corresponding superscript
numeral 1 before the corresponding affiliation (with a space between the
numeral and the start of the affiliation). Repeat this process for the second
author using the numeral 2 (and so on when a paper has more authors).
If some, but not all, authors share an affiliation, list the affiliation once and
reuse the superscript numeral in the byline. Identify authors with two
affiliations in the byline by separating the appropriate superscript numerals
with a superscript comma and space.
If the paper has only one author, or if there are multiple authors but all
authors share the same one or two affiliations, then superscript numerals are
not used.
Group Authors. For group authors (e.g., task forces, working groups,
organizations), superscript numerals are not usually used because the group is
essentially its own affiliation.
2.7 Author Note
An author note provides additional information about authors, study
registration, data sharing, disclaimers or statements regarding conflicts of
interest, and help or funding that supported the research. It also provides a
point of contact for interested readers. Student papers do not typically include
an author note.
Arrange the author note into separate paragraphs; if a paragraph is not
applicable to your manuscript, omit it from the author note. Also, the
following requirements apply for manuscripts submitted to APA journals;
other publishers may have different requirements (e.g., some journals require
authors to provide disclosures and acknowledgments on a separate page at the
end of the manuscript rather than in the author note).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 75 ---

First Paragraph: ORCID iDs. Authors may include their ORCID
identification number (iD), if they have one (see the ORCID website at
https://orcid.org/ for more information). ORCID iDs help authors who have
changed names or who share the same name ensure publications are correctly
attributed to them. Provide the author’s name, the ORCID iD symbol, and the
full URL for the ORCID iD, listing each author on a separate, indented line.
The iD symbol should be included in the link, per ORCID’s recommendation.
Josiah S. Carberry 
 https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1825-0097
Sofia Maria Hernandez Garcia 
  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5727-2427
Include only the names of authors who have ORCID iDs. If no authors have
ORCID iDs, omit this paragraph.
Second Paragraph: Changes of Affiliation. Identify any changes in author
affiliation subsequent to the time of the study. Use the following wording:
“[Author’s name] is now at [affiliation].” This paragraph may also be used to
acknowledge the death of an author.
Third Paragraph: Disclosures and Acknowledgments. If the disclosures
and acknowledgments are short, combine them into one paragraph; if they are
long, separate them into multiple paragraphs.
Study Registration. If the study was registered, provide the registry name and
document entry number in the author note. Clinical trials and meta-analyses
are often registered. For example, write “This study was registered with
ClinicalTrials.gov (Identifier NCT998877).” For more information on study
registration information as it pertains to JARS, see Section 3.9.
Open Practices and Data Sharing. If the study data and/or materials are to be
shared openly as part of the publication of the article (see also Section 1.14),
acknowledge this in the author note. Cite the data set in the author note, and
include the reference for the data set in the reference list (see Section 10.9).
Disclosure of Related Reports and Conflicts of Interest. If the article is based
on data used in a previously published report (e.g., a longitudinal study),
doctoral dissertation, or conference presentation, disclose this information,
and include an in-text citation. For example, write “This article is based on
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 76 ---

data published in Pulaski (2017)” or “This article is based on the dissertation
completed by Graham (2018)” and include an entry for Pulaski (2017) or
Graham (2018) in the reference list. Also acknowledge the publication of
related reports (e.g., reports on the same data). In addition, indicate in this
paragraph whether any author has a possible or perceived conflict of interest
(e.g., ownership of stock in a company that manufactures a drug used in the
study); if not, state that no conflict of interest exists. If your employer or
granting organization requires a disclaimer stating, for example, that the
research reported does not reflect the views of that organization, include such
a statement in this paragraph and follow the format or wording prescribed by
that organization.
Acknowledgments of Financial Support and Other Assistance. Complete and
accurate funding information for your article should be included in the author
note. Report the names of all funding organizations; all grant, fellowship, or
award numbers and/or names; the names of the funding recipients; and the
names of principal investigators (if any) for the funded research. Do not
precede grant numbers by “No.” or “#” (e.g., write “We received funding
from Grant A-123 from the National Science Foundation” or “National
Science Foundation Grant A-123 funded this work,” not “Grant No. A-123”
or “Grant #A-123”). Next, acknowledge colleagues who assisted in
conducting the study or critiquing the manuscript but who are not authors of
the work. Study participants may be acknowledged for exceptional
contributions if desired. Then provide any thanks for personal assistance,
such as in manuscript preparation or copyediting. End this paragraph by
explaining any special agreements concerning authorship, such as if authors
contributed equally to the study. Do not acknowledge the people routinely
involved in the review and acceptance of manuscripts in this paragraph, such
as peer reviewers, editors, associate editors, and consulting editors of the
journal to which you are submitting the manuscript. If you would like to
acknowledge a specific idea raised by a reviewer or journal editor, do so in a
footnote in the text where the idea is discussed.
Fourth Paragraph: Contact Information. The corresponding author
answers queries regarding the work after it is published and ensures that any
data are retained for the appropriate amount of time. Any author can serve as
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 77 ---

the corresponding author. Provide the full name and complete mailing
address for the corresponding author, with the name and address separated by
a comma and a period after the address. Then provide the corresponding
author’s email address, with no period after it. Use the following format:
Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to [author’s
name], [complete mailing address]. Email: author@institution.edu
Format. Place the author note in the bottom half of the title page, below the
title, byline, and affiliation. Leave at least one blank line between the
affiliation and the author note label. Center the label “Author Note” (in bold).
Indent each paragraph of the author note and align paragraphs to the left.
Although the paragraphs of the author note are labeled in this section to help
explain them, do not label the paragraphs of the author note in your paper.
See Figure 2.3 for a sample author note.
Figure 2.3 Sample Author Note
2.8 Running Head
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 78 ---

The running head is an abbreviated version of the paper title that appears at
the top of every page to identify it for readers, especially readers of a print
copy of the published article. Running heads are required only for
manuscripts being submitted for publication. Running heads are not required
for student papers unless the instructor or institution requests them; thus, the
header for a student paper includes only the page number.
Authors should supply the running head rather than leave this task to the
publisher because authors are best able to select the most important words for
an abbreviated title. The running head does not have to consist of the same
words in the same order as the title; rather, the idea of the title should be
conveyed in a shortened form. For example, an article titled “Restless Nights:
Sleep Latency Increases and Sleep Quality Decreases With Caffeine Intake”
can have a running head of “CAFFEINE-INDUCED REDUCTIONS IN
SLEEP EFFICIENCY.”
The running head should contain a maximum of 50 characters, counting
letters, punctuation, and spaces between words as characters. If the title is
already 50 characters or fewer, the full title can be used as the running head.
Avoid using abbreviations in the running head; however, the ampersand
symbol (&) may be used rather than “and” if desired.
Format. Write the running head in the page header, flush left, in all-capital
letters, across from the right-aligned page number. Use the same running
head on every page, including the title page; do not include the label
“Running head” to identify the running head on any page (see the sample
papers at the end of this chapter).
2.9 Abstract
An abstract is a brief, comprehensive summary of the contents of the paper.
Authors writing for publication should follow the reporting standards for
abstracts presented in Section 3.3. Most scholarly journals require an abstract.
For any journal-specific instructions, consult the instructions for authors or
the webpage of the journal to which you plan to submit your article. For
example, some journals publish a public significance statement, which
summarizes the significance of the study for a general audience, along with
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 79 ---

the abstract. An abstract is not usually required for student papers unless
requested by the instructor or institution.
Format. Abstracts typically are limited to no more than 250 words. If you are
submitting a work for publication, check the journal’s instructions for authors
for abstract length and formatting requirements, which may be different from
those of APA journals. Place the abstract on its own page after the title page
(i.e., page 2). Write the section label “Abstract” in bold title case, centered at
the top of the page, and place the abstract below the label.
Abstracts may appear in paragraph or structured format. Abstracts in
paragraph format are written as a single paragraph without indentation of the
first line. Structured abstracts are also written as a single paragraph without
indentation, and labels are inserted to identify various sections (e.g.,
Objective, Method, Results, Conclusions); use the labels and formatting
prescribed by the journal to which you are submitting your manuscript (e.g.,
APA journals use bold italic for the labels).
2.10 Keywords
Keywords are words, phrases, or acronyms that describe the most important
aspects of your paper. They are used for indexing in databases and help
readers find your work during a search. For manuscripts being submitted to
APA journals, provide three to five keywords describing the content.
Keywords are not required for student papers unless requested by the
instructor or institution.
Format. Write the label “Keywords:” (in italic) one line below the abstract,
indented 0.5 in. like a regular paragraph, followed by the keywords in
lowercase (but capitalize proper nouns; see Section 6.14), separated by
commas. The keywords can be listed in any order. Do not use a period or
other punctuation after the last keyword (see the sample professional paper at
the end of this chapter). If the keywords run onto a second line, the second
line is not indented.
2.11 Text (Body)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 80 ---

The text, or body of the paper, contains the authors’ main contribution to the
literature. Both professional and student authors should follow the content
and formatting guidelines described in this chapter and the citation principles
described in Chapters 8 and 9; researchers preparing manuscripts for
publication should also review the reporting standards for quantitative,
qualitative, or mixed methods research, as appropriate, described in Chapter
3. For guidance on the contents of various types of papers, see Sections 1.1 to
1.10.
The text can be organized in many ways, and the organization generally
depends on the paper type (see also Sections 1.1–1.10). Most papers include
an introduction that addresses the importance of the work, contextualizes the
work within the existing literature, and states the aims of the work. Beyond
the introduction, the paper should include paragraphs or sections explaining
the main premises of the paper. There are many possible formats for the rest
of the text; for example, a quantitative research paper typically includes
sections called “Method,” “Results,” and “Discussion,” whereas a qualitative
research paper may include a section called “Findings” instead of “Results,”
or it may have different section headings altogether, depending on the nature
of the inquiry. A brief student paper (e.g., a response paper) may not have
section headings or may have sections with headings different from those
described in this manual. See Section 2.26 for more on organization.
Format. The text should start on a new page after the title page and abstract
(if the paper includes an abstract). On the first line of the first page of the
text, write the title of the paper in title case, bold, and centered. The text
should be left-aligned, double-spaced paragraphs, with the first line of each
paragraph indented by one tab key (0.5 in.; see Sections 2.23–2.24). Use
headings as needed and appropriate within the text to separate sections and to
reflect the organizational structure of the content (see Sections 2.26–2.27).
Do not start a new page or add extra line breaks when a new heading occurs;
each section of the text should follow the next without a break.
2.12 Reference List
The reference list provides a reliable way for readers to locate the works
authors cite to acknowledge previous scholarship. References are used to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 81 ---

document and substantiate statements made about the literature, just as data
in the paper are used to support interpretations and conclusions. The
references cited in the paper do not need to be exhaustive but should be
sufficient to support the need for your research and to enable readers to place
it in the context of previous research and theorizing. For detailed guidance on
citing sources in the text and preparing the reference list, consult Chapters 8
and 9, respectively.
Format. Start the reference list on a new page after the text and before any
tables, figures, and/or appendices. Label the reference list “References,”
capitalized, in bold, and centered. Double-space all reference list entries
(including between and within references). Use a hanging indent for all
references, meaning that the first line of each reference is flush left and
subsequent lines are indented by 0.5 in. Use the paragraph-formatting
function of your word-processing program to automatically apply the hanging
indent. For the order of works in the reference list, see Sections 9.44 to 9.49.
2.13 Footnotes
A footnote is a brief note that provides additional content or copyright
attribution. Any type of paper may include footnotes.
Content Footnotes. Content footnotes supplement or enhance substantive
information in the text; they should not include complicated, irrelevant, or
nonessential information. Because they can be distracting to readers, content
footnotes should be included only if they strengthen the discussion. A content
footnote should convey just one idea; if you find yourself creating paragraphs
or displaying equations as you are writing a footnote, then the main text or an
appendix would likely be a more suitable place to present the information.
Another alternative is to indicate in a short footnote that supplemental
material is available online (see Section 2.15). In most cases, authors
integrate an idea into an article best by presenting important information in
the text, not in a footnote.
Copyright Attribution. When authors reproduce lengthy quotations and/or
test or scale items in the text, a copyright attribution is usually required and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 82 ---

should be presented in a footnote. A reproduced table or figure also requires a
copyright attribution, but this attribution appears in the table or figure note.
Further directions on seeking permission to reproduce material and
appropriate wording for the copyright attribution appear in Sections 12.14 to
12.18.
Footnote Callout Numbering and Format. Number all footnotes
consecutively in the order in which their callouts appear in the text with
superscript Arabic numerals. Footnote callouts should be superscripted, like
this,1 following any punctuation mark except a dash. A footnote callout that
appears with a dash—like this2—always precedes the dash. (The callout falls
inside a closing parenthesis if it applies only to matter within the parentheses,
like this.3) Do not put a space before the footnote callout in text. Do not place
footnote callouts in headings. To refer to a footnote again after it has been
called out, identify it in the text by the footnote number (e.g., write “see
Footnote 3”); do not repeat the footnote callout or the whole footnote.
Place each footnote at the bottom of the page on which it is discussed
using the footnote function of your word-processing program (see the sample
professional paper at the end of this chapter for examples). Footnotes may
alternatively be placed in consecutive order on a separate page after the
references; in this case, put the section label “Footnotes” in bold, centered at
the top of the page; then write the footnotes themselves as double-spaced
indented paragraphs that begin with a superscript footnote number, and put a
space between the footnote number and the text that follows. Be sure that the
number of the footnote callout corresponds with the number that appears with
the footnoted text.
2.14 Appendices
Sometimes authors wish to include material that supplements the paper’s
content but that would be distracting or inappropriate in the text of the paper.
Such material can often be included in an appendix, which is included in the
print and electronic versions of the article, or in supplemental materials (see
Section 2.15), which are available in an online-only supplemental archive that
the publisher maintains.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 83 ---

Include an appendix only if it helps readers understand, evaluate, or
replicate the study or theoretical argument being made. Be sure that all
relevant ethical standards have been followed for materials placed in the
appendices, including copyright attribution, accurate representation of data,
and protection of human participants (e.g., as the standards apply to images
or videos of identifiable people; see Sections 1.18 and 12.17).
In general, an appendix is appropriate for materials that are relatively brief
and easily presented in print format. Some examples of material suitable for
an appendix are (a) lists of stimulus materials (e.g., those used in
psycholinguistic research); (b) instructions to participants; (c) tests, scales, or
inventories developed for the study being reported; (d) detailed descriptions
of complex equipment; (e) detailed demographic descriptions of
subpopulations in the study; and (f) other detailed or complex reporting items
described in Chapter 3. Student papers may include appendices.
Format. Begin each appendix on a separate page after any references,
footnotes, tables, and figures. Give each appendix a label and a title. If a
paper has one appendix, label it “Appendix”; if a paper has more than one
appendix, label each appendix with a capital letter (e.g., “Appendix A,”
“Appendix B”) in the order in which it is mentioned in the text. Each
appendix should be mentioned (called out) at least once in the text by its label
(e.g., “see Appendix A”). The appendix title should describe its contents.
Place the appendix label and title in bold and centered on separate lines at the
top of the page on which the appendix begins. Use title case (see Section
6.17) for the appendix label and title.
The appendix may consist of text, tables, figures, or a combination of
these. A text appendix may contain headings and displayed equations. If an
appendix contains text, write the paragraphs as regular indented paragraphs
the same as in the body of the paper. If a text appendix contains tables,
figures, footnotes, and/or displayed equations, give each one a number
preceded by the letter of the appendix in which it appears (e.g., Table A1 is
the first table within Appendix A or of a sole appendix that is not labeled
with a letter; Equation B1 is the first equation within Appendix B; Figure C2
is the second figure of Appendix C). In a sole text appendix, which is not
labeled with a letter, precede all table, figure, footnote, and equation numbers
with the letter “A” to distinguish them from those of the main text. All tables
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 84 ---

and figures within a text appendix must be mentioned in the appendix and
numbered in order of mention. The tables and figures within a text appendix
should be embedded within the text, as described in Section 7.6.
If an appendix consists of a table only or a figure only, then the appendix
label takes the place of the table or figure number, and the appendix title
takes the place of the table or figure title. Thus, if Appendix B is a table-only
appendix, the table is referred to as Appendix B rather than as Table B1.
Likewise, if Appendix C is a figure-only appendix, the figure is referred to as
Appendix C rather than as Figure C1. If multiple tables and/or figures (but no
text) are combined into one appendix, label and title the appendix and also
number and title the tables and/or figures within the appendix (e.g., Tables
D1 and D2 are two tables in Appendix D).
2.15 Supplemental Materials
Supplemental materials to a journal article are published online only. These
materials enrich readers’ experience and understanding of the content of the
article. Online-only publication tends to be appropriate for materials that are
more useful when available as downloadable files and for materials that are
not easily presented in print. Student papers do not typically include
supplemental materials.
Some examples of content provided as supplemental materials are
video clips, audio clips, or animations
lengthy computer code
details of mathematical or computational models
oversized tables
detailed intervention protocols
expanded methodology descriptions
color figures or other images (see Section 7.26)
printable templates and worksheets
data files (e.g., generated using SPSS or other software)
Supplemental materials should include enough information to make their
content interpretable when accompanied by the published text. Also keep in
mind accessibility guidelines as they pertain to online or interactive materials
to ensure that your files are not only openable but also accessible to all
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 85 ---

readers.1 Complete data sets should be made available, as appropriate, in
online repositories or archives (see Section 10.9 for the reference format) or
in supplemental materials. See Sections 1.14 and 1.15 for more on data
retention and sharing.
Because this content may be useful to the field, APA and many other
publishers make it possible to provide supplemental materials to a wide
audience by posting them online and placing a link with the published article.
These files (like appendices) then become part of the primary journal record
and cannot be augmented, altered, or deleted. As such, materials for inclusion
in supplemental materials should be submitted in formats that are widely
accessible. We recommend checking with the journal publisher for preferred
file types and any limitations.
Less widely used file formats, including TeX, LaTeX, any client- or
server-side scripting (e.g., Java, CGI), executable files, and software
applications, might be acceptable but of less use to readers who do not have
access to specialized programs. Because of the risk of downloading
embedded viruses or malware, many uncommon file types or executable files
may be blocked by firewalls and antivirus protection programs, system
administrators, or users. Therefore, we do not recommend using such file
types unless they are critical to understanding or using your material (e.g.,
syntax from a methodological paper such as an SPSS macro might be saved
with an SPS extension so that it can be used directly by other researchers).
Briefly describe any supplemental materials in the text or a footnote to the
text as appropriate (see Section 2.13).
Most journals make supplemental materials subject to peer review and
require that they be submitted with the initial manuscript. Once accepted, the
supplemental materials are typically posted with no editing, formatting, or
typesetting. For APA journals, a link to the supplemental materials appears in
the published article and leads readers to a landing page that includes a
bibliographic citation, a link to the published article, and a context statement
and link for each supplemental file (see an example of a landing page at
https://on.apa.org/2CmDGd6). Other journals may include links in the article
that directly open the supplemental files. See Chapter 3 for more details on
the role of supplemental materials in JARS. See the APA website
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 86 ---

(https://on.apa.org/2Qo7OhX) for additional information about supplemental
materials.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 87 ---

Format
2.16 Importance of Format
Use the guidelines in this section to format all APA Style papers. The
physical appearance of a paper can enhance or detract from it. A well-
prepared paper encourages editors and reviewers, as well as instructors in the
case of student work, to view authors’ work as professional. In contrast,
mechanical flaws can lead reviewers or instructors to misinterpret content or
question the authors’ expertise or attention to detail, and students may receive
a lower grade because of formatting errors. For manuscripts being submitted
for publication, publishers will use your word-processing file to produce the
typeset version of your article, so it is important that you properly format
your article.
2.17 Order of Pages
Arrange the pages of the paper in the following order:
title page (page 1)
abstract (start on a new page after the title page)
text (start on a new page after the abstract, or after the title page if the
paper does not have an abstract)
references (start on a new page after the end of the text)
footnotes (start on a new page after the references)
tables (start each on a new page after the footnotes)
figures (start each on a new page after the tables)
appendices (start each on a new page after the tables and/or figures)
APA Style provides options for the display of footnotes, tables, and figures.
Footnotes may appear either in the footer of the page where they are first
mentioned (see Section 2.13) or on a separate page after the references.
Tables and figures may be embedded within the text after they have been
mentioned, or each table and figure can be displayed on a separate page after
the footnotes (or after the references if there is no footnotes page; see Section
7.6).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 88 ---

2.18 Page Header
All papers should contain the page number, flush right, in the header of every
page. Use the automatic page-numbering function of your word-processing
pro-gram to insert page numbers in the top right corner; do not type page
numbers manually. The title page is page number 1.
Manuscripts being submitted for publication should contain the running
head (see Section 2.8) in the page header in addition to the page number.
When both elements appear, the running head should be flush left and the
page number should be flush right. Student papers need only the page number
in the page header, unless the instructor or institution also requires a running
head.
2.19 Font
APA Style papers should be written in a font that is accessible to all users.
Historically, sans serif fonts have been preferred for online works and serif
fonts for print works; however, modern screen resolutions can typically
accommodate either type of font, and people who use assistive technologies
can adjust font settings to their preferences. Thus, a variety of font choices
are permitted in APA Style; also check with your publisher, instructor, or
institution for any requirements regarding font.
Use the same font throughout the text of the paper. Options include
a sans serif font such as 11-point Calibri, 11-point Arial, or 10-point
Lucida Sans Unicode or
a serif font such as 12-point Times New Roman, 11-point Georgia, or
normal (10-point) Computer Modern (the latter is the default font for
LaTeX).
We recommend these fonts because they are legible and widely available and
because they include special characters such as math symbols and Greek
letters.
An APA Style paper may contain other fonts or font sizes under the
following circumstances:
Within figure images, use a sans serif font with a type size between 8 and
14 points.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 89 ---

When presenting computer code, use a monospace font, such as 10-point
Lucida Console or 10-point Courier New.
When presenting a footnote in a page footer, the default footnote settings
of your word-processing program are acceptable (e.g., 10-point font with
single line spacing).
Because different fonts take up different amounts of space on the page, we
recommend using word count rather than page count to gauge paper length
(see Section 2.25). See the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org) for
further discussion of font and accessible typography.
2.20 Special Characters
Special characters are accented letters and other diacritical marks, Greek
letters, math signs, and symbols. Type special characters using the special
character functions of your word-processing program or a plug-in such as
MathType. Characters that are not available should be presented as images.
For more information on Greek letters and mathematical symbols, see
Sections 6.44 and 6.45.
2.21 Line Spacing
Double-space the entire paper, including the title page, abstract, text,
headings, block quotations, reference list, table and figure notes, and
appendices, with the following exceptions:
title page: Elements of the title page are double-spaced, and an additional
double-spaced blank line appears between the title and byline. At least
one double-spaced blank line also appears between the final affiliation
and any author note (see Figure 2.1).
table body and figure image: The table body (cells) and words within
the image part of a figure may be single-spaced, one-and-a-half-spaced, or
double-spaced, depending on what format creates the most effective
presentation of the data. If text appears on the same page as a table or
figure, insert a double-spaced blank line between the text and the table or
figure (for more information on placement of tables and figures, see
Section 7.6).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 90 ---

footnotes: Footnotes that appear at the bottom of the page on which they
are called out should be single-spaced and formatted with the default
settings of your word-processing program. Footnotes that appear on their
own page after the references should be formatted like regular paragraphs
of text—that is, indented and double-spaced.
displayed equations: It is permissible to apply triple- or quadruple-
spacing in special circumstances, such as before and after a displayed
equation.
It is not necessary to add blank lines before or after headings, even if a
heading falls at the end of a page. Do not add extra spacing between
paragraphs.
2.22 Margins
Use 1-in. (2.54-cm) margins on all sides (top, bottom, left, and right) of the
page. This is the default page margin in most word-processing programs.
Dissertations and theses may have different requirements if they are to be
bound (e.g., 1.5-in. left margins).
2.23 Paragraph Alignment
Align the text to the left and leave the right margin uneven (“ragged”). Do
not use full justification, which adjusts the spacing between words to make
all lines the same length (flush with the margins). Do not manually divide
words at the end of a line, and do not use the hyphenation function to break
words at the ends of lines. Do not manually insert line breaks into long DOIs
or URLs; however, breaks in DOIs or URLs applied automatically by a word-
processing program are permissible.
2.24 Paragraph Indentation
Indent the first line of every paragraph 0.5 in. For consistency, use the tab
key or the automatic paragraph-formatting function of your word-processing
program. The default settings in most word-processing programs are
acceptable. The remaining lines of the paragraph should be left-aligned.
Exceptions to these paragraph indentation requirements are as follows:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 91 ---

For professional papers, the title (in bold), byline, and affiliations on the
title page should be centered (see Figure 2.1).
For student papers, the title (in bold), byline, affiliations, course number
and name, instructor, and assignment date should be centered (see Figure
2.2).
Section labels should be centered (and bold; see Section 2.28).
The first line of the abstract should be flush left (not indented; see Section
2.9).
The entirety of a block quotation should be indented from the left margin
0.5 in. If the block quotation spans more than one paragraph, the first line
of the second and any subsequent paragraphs of the block quotation
should be indented another 0.5 in., such that those first lines are indented
a total of 1 in. (see Section 8.27).
Level 1 headings should be centered (and in bold), and Level 2 and 3
headings should be left-aligned (and in bold or bold italic, respectively;
see Section 2.27).
Table and figure numbers (Sections 7.10 and 7.24, respectively), titles
(Sections 7.11 and 7.25), and notes (Sections 7.14 and 7.28) should be
flush left.
Reference list entries should have a hanging indent of 0.5 in. (see Section
2.12).
Appendix labels and titles should be centered (and bold; see Section 2.14).
2.25 Paper Length
Journals differ in the average length of articles they publish; consult the
journal’s instructions for authors to determine the appropriate length for the
type of article you are submitting. The length for student papers is determined
by the assignment guidelines.
If a paper exceeds the target length, shorten it by stating points clearly and
directly, confining discussion to the specific problem under investigation,
deleting or combining data displays, eliminating repetition across sections,
and writing in the active voice. For guidance on improving sentence and
paragraph length, see Section 4.6. A professional paper that is still too long
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 92 ---

may need to be divided into two or more papers, each with a more specific
focus (however, see Section 1.16 on piecemeal publication).
Paper length targets may be specified by either page count or word count;
we recommend word count because different fonts are slightly different sizes
and may produce variations in the number of pages. In general, to determine
the page count, count every page, including the title page and reference list.
Likewise, to determine word count, count every word from beginning to end,
including all in-text citations, reference entries, tables, figures (other than
words in a figure image, which may not be captured by word count), and
appendices. The default settings of the word-count function of your word-
processing program are acceptable for determining the word count. Do not
count text in the page header (i.e., running head and/or page numbers) or
manually add any words within figure images to the word count (these words
are generally not included in the automatic word count in programs such as
Microsoft Word, Academic Writer, or Google Docs). If the journal to which
you are submitting has different specifications for determining the page count
or word count, follow the instructions of the journal.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 93 ---

Organization
2.26 Principles of Organization
In scholarly writing, sound organizational structure is the key to clear,
precise, and logical communication. Before beginning to write, consider the
best paper length and structure for your findings. Ordering your thoughts
logically at both sentence and paragraph levels will also strengthen the
impact of your writing.
Headings in a document identify the topic or purpose of the content within
each section. Headings help readers become familiar with how a paper’s
content is organized, allowing them to easily find the information they seek.
Headings should be succinct yet long enough to describe the content; see the
sample papers at the end of this chapter for examples of effective headings.
Concise headings help readers anticipate key points and track the
development of your argument. Headings that are well formatted and clearly
worded aid both visual and nonvisual readers of all abilities. Headings must
be clearly distinguishable from the text. For a deeper discussion of how to
effectively create and use headings (and related text) for all users (including
those using assistive technologies), visit the APA Style website
(https://apastyle.apa.org).
There are five possible levels of heading in APA Style (see Section 2.27),
and all topics of equal importance should have the same level of heading. For
example, in a multiexperiment paper, the headings for the Method and
Results sections for Experiment 1 should be the same level as the headings
for the Method and Results sections for Experiment 2, with parallel wording.
In a single-experiment paper, the Method, Results, and Discussion sections
should all have the same heading level. Avoid having only one subsection
heading within a section, just like in an outline; use at least two subsection
headings within a section, or use none (e.g., in an outline, a section numbered
with a Roman numeral would be divided into either a minimum of A and B
subsections or no subsections; an A subsection could not stand alone).
2.27 Heading Levels
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 94 ---

APA Style headings have five possible levels: Level 1 headings are used for
top-level or main sections, Level 2 headings are subsections of Level 1, and
so on. Regardless of the number of levels of subheading within a section, the
heading structure for all sections follows the same top-down progression.
Each section starts with the highest level of heading, even if one section has
fewer levels of subheading than another section. For example, in a paper with
Level 1 Method, Results, and Discussion headings, the Method and Results
sections may each have two levels of subheading (Levels 2 and 3), and the
Discussion section may have only one level of subheading (Level 2). Thus,
there would be three levels of heading for the paper overall.
Headings in the Introduction. Because the first paragraphs of a paper are
understood to be introductory, the heading “Introduction” is not needed. Do
not begin a paper with an “Introduction” heading; the paper title at the top of
the first page of text acts as a de facto Level 1 heading (see Figure 2.4). For
subsections within the introduction, use Level 2 headings for the first level of
subsection, Level 3 for subsections of any Level 2 headings, and so on. After
the introduction (regardless of whether it includes headings), use a Level 1
heading for the next main section of the paper (e.g., Method).
Figure 2.4 Use of Headings in a Sample Introduction
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 95 ---

Number of Headings in a Paper. The number of levels of heading needed
for a paper depends on its length and complexity; three is average. If only one
level of heading is needed, use Level 1; if two levels are needed, use Levels 1
and 2; if three levels are needed, use Levels 1, 2, and 3; and so forth. Use
only the number of headings necessary to differentiate distinct sections in
your paper; short student papers may not require any headings. Do not label
headings with numbers or letters.2
Format. Table 2.3 shows how to format each level of heading, Figure 2.4
demonstrates the use of headings in the introduction, and Figure 2.5 lists all
the headings used in a sample paper in correct format. The sample papers at
the end of this chapter also show the use of headings in context.
Table 2.3 Format for the Five Levels of Heading in APA Style
Level Format
1 Centered, Bold, Title Case Heading
Text begins as a new paragraph.
2 Flush Left, Bold, Title Case Heading
Text begins as a new paragraph.
3 Flush Left, Bold Italic, Title Case Heading
Text begins as a new paragraph.
4 Indented, Bold, Title Case Heading, Ending With a Period. Text begins on the same line
and continues as a regular paragraph.
5 Indented, Bold Italic, Title Case Heading, Ending With a Period. Text begins on the
same line and continues as a regular paragraph.
Note. In title case, most words are capitalized (see Section 6.17).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 96 ---

Figure 2.5 Format of Headings in a Sample Paper
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 97 ---

2.28 Section Labels
Section labels include “Author Note,” “Abstract,” the paper title at the top of
the first page of text, “References,” “Footnotes,” and “Appendix A” (and
other appendix labels). Place section labels on a separate line at the top of the
page on which the section begins, in bold and centered.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 98 ---

Sample Papers

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 99 ---

Sample Professional Paper
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 100 ---

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 1

Comparison of Student Evaluations of Teaching With Online and Paper-Based Administration

Claudia J. Stanny! and James E, Arruda?
1Center for University Teaching, Learning, and Assessment, University of West Florida

> Department of Psychology, University of West Florida

Author Note

Data collection and preliminary analysis were sponsored by the Office of the Provost and the

Student Assessment of Instruction Task Force. Portions of these findings were presented as a poster at
the 2016 National Institute on the Teaching of Psychology, St. Pete Beach, Florida, United States. We
have no conflicts of interest to disclose,

Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Claudia J. Stanny, Center for

University Teaching, Learning, and Assessment, University of West Florida, Building 53, 11000 University

professional

title page, 2.3

Parkway, Pensacola, FL 32514, United States. Email: cstanny@institution.edu

abstra
section label

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 2

Abstract

When institutions administer student evaluations of teaching (SETs) online, response rates are lower
relative to paper-based administration. We analyzed average SET scores from 364 courses taught during
the fall term in 3 consecutive years to determine whether administering SET forms online for all courses
in the 3rd year changed the response rate or the average SET score. To control for instructor
characteristics, we based the data analysis on courses for which the same instructor taught the course in
each of three successive fall terms, Response rates for face-to-face classes declined when SET

administration occurred only online, Although average SET scores were reliably lower in Year 3 than in

the previous 2 years, the magnitude of this change was minimal (0.11 ona five-item Likert-like scale).
We discuss practical implications of these findings for interpretation of SETs and the role of SETs in the
evaluation of teaching quality.

Keywords: college teaching, student evaluations of teaching, online administration, response

rate, assessment

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish



--- Page 101 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 102 ---

running head, 2.8
title, 2.4, Table 2.1

parenthetical citation

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING

Comparison of Student Evaluations of Teaching With Online and Paper-Based Administration
Student ratings and evaluations of instruction have a long history as sources of information

about teaching quality (Berk, 2013). student evaluations of teaching (SETS) often play a significant role in of a work with one
author, 8.17

high-stakes decisions about hiring, promotion, tenure, and teaching awards. As a result, researchers.

have examined the psychometric properties of SETs and the possible impact of variables such as race, parenthetical citation

gender, age, course difficulty, and grading practices on average student ratings (Griffin et al,, 2014; of multiple works, 8.12
‘Nulty, 2008; Spooren et al., 2013). They have also examined how decision makers evaluate SET scores
(Boysen, 2015a, 2015b; Boysen et al, 2014; Dewar, 2011). In the last 20 years, considerable attention

parenthetical citation
for works with the
same author and
same date, 8.19

has been directed toward the consequences of administering SETs online (Morrison, 2011; Stowell et al.,

2012) because low response rates may have implications for how decision makers should interpret SETs.

Online Administration of Student Evaluations << Level 2 heading in the

‘Adm introduction, 228),
Table 2.3, Figure 2.4

devote more

«testi COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 4

integrity of th

answers and students do not write comments on paper-based forms), or an instructor might remain present during

Because ele SET administration (Avery et al., 2006).

comments ( In-class, paper-based administration creates social expectations that might motivate students to

and verbatin| complete SETs. In contrast, students who are concerned about confidentiality or do not understand how

following ter, instructors and institutions use SET findings to improve teaching might ignore requests to complete an
Desp online SET (Dommeyer et al., 2002}. Instructors in turn worry that low response rates will reduce the

concerns abc validity of the findings if students who do not complete an SET differ in significant ways from students

not confiden, who do (Stowell et al., 2012). For example, students who do not attend class regularly often miss class

(Dommeyer the day that SETs are administered, However, all students (including nonattending students) can

administratis complete the forms when they are administered online. Faculty also fear that SET findings based on a

low-response sample will be dominated by students in extreme categories (e.g,, students with grudges,

students with extremely favorable attitudes), who may be particularly motivated to complete online

SETs, and therefore that SET findings will inadequately represent the voice of average students (Reiner
& Arnold, 2010).

Effects of Format on Response Rates and Student Evaluation Scores

Level 2 heading in the
introduction, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.4

narrative citation, 8.11;
paraphrasing, 8.23

The potential for biased SET findings associated with low response rates has been examined in
the published literature. In findings that run contrary to faculty fears that online SETs might be

dominated by low-performing students, Avery et al. (2006) found that students with higher grade-point

averages (GPAs) were more likely to complete online evaluations, Likewle, Jaquett et al. (2017)
reported that students who had positive experiences in their classes (including receiving the grade they

expected to earn) were more likely to submit course evaluations.

Institutions can expect lower response rates when they adi

ster SETs online (Avery et al.,
2006; Dommeyer et al., 2002; Morrison, 2011; Nulty, 2008; Reiner & Arnold, 2010; Stowell et al., 2012;

Venette et al., 2010). However, most researchers have found that the mean SET rating does not change

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish



--- Page 103 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 104 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 105 ---

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 6

limited toa single academic department, we gathered SET data on a large sample of courses (N= 364)
that included instructors from all colleges and all course levels over 3 years. We controlled for individual
differences in instructors by limiting the sample to courses taught by the same instructor in all 3 years.
The university offers nearly 30% of course sections online in any given term, and these courses have
always administered online SETS. This allowed us to examine the combined effects of changing the
method of delivery for SETs (paper-based to online) for traditional classes and changing from a mixed
method of administering SETs (paper for traditional classes and online for online classes in the first 2

years of data gathered) to uniform use of online forms for all classes in the final year of data collection.

Method ~<€ Level 1 heading after

the introduction, 2.27,

Sample binasso 777s SeeUnneuEe Table 2.3, Figure 2.5
Response rates and evaluation ratings were Ti irchived course evaluation data. The

archive of SET data did not include information about personal characteristics of the instructor (gender,

Level 2 heading, 2.27,

age, or years of teaching experience}, and students were not provided with any systematic incentive to Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

complete the paper or online versions of the SET. We extracted data on response rates and evaluation

ratings for 3
(012, 207g COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 7
The
beginning undergraduate level (1st- and 2nd-year students), 205 courses (56%) at the advanced
instructors (

undergraduate level (3rd- and 4th-year students}, and 52 courses (14%) at the graduate level.

Level 2 heading, 2.27,

z Instrument
Table 2.3, Figure
The course evaluation instrument was.a set of 18 items developed by the state university
provided dat)
system. The first eight items were designed to measure the quality of the instructor, concluding with a
courses, and
global rating of instructor quality (Item 8: “Overall assessment of instructor”). The remaining items
face-to-face

asked students to evaluate components of the course, concluding with a global rating of course
organization (Item 18: “Overall, | would rate the course organization”). No formal data on the

psychometric properties of the items are available, although all items have obvious face validity.

italics used for anchors
of a scale, 6.22

Students were askedt

and instructor. A median rating was computed when an instructor taught more than one section of a

response to each item. Evaluation ratings were subsequently calculated for each course

course during a term.

The ins

ition limited our access to SET data for the 3 years of data requested. We obtained

scores for Item 8 (“Overall assessment of instructor”) for all 3 years but could obtain scores for Item 18

(“Overall, | would rate the course organization’) only for Year 3. We computed the correlation between

en dash used ina

P ‘scores on Item 8 and Item 18 (from course data recorded in the 3rd year only) to estimate the internal
numerical range, 6.6

the evaluation instrument. These tw«

ms, which serve as composite summaries of

statistics presented preceding items (Item 8 for Items 1-7 and Item 18 for Items 9-17), were strongly related, r(362) = .92._

in text, 6.43

Feistauer and Richter (2016) also reported strong correlations between global items in a large analysis of
SET responses.

Level 2 heading, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5 Design

This study took advantage of a natural experiment created when the university decided to

administer all course evaluations online. We requested SET data for the fall semesters for 2 years

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 106 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 107 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 108 ---

footnote callout, 2.13

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 9

<
101.34, MSE = 210.61, p <.001." The strength of the overall interaction effect was .22+(ff;7). Simple main-

effects tests revealed statistically significant differences in the resperiSé rates for face-to-face courses
and online courses for each of the 3 observation years.’ The greatest differences occurred during Year 1
(p<.001) and Year 2 (p <.001), when evaluations were administered on paper in the classroom for all
face-to-face courses and online for all online courses. Although the difference in response rate between

face-to-face and online courses during the Year 3 administration was statistically reliable (when both

face-to-to-face and online courses were evaluated with online surveys}, the effect was small (n,? = .02).
Thus, there was minimal difference in response rate between face-to-face and online courses when

evaluations were administered online for all courses. No other factors or interactions included in the

analysis were statistically reliable. Level 2 heading, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

Evaluation Ratings =<

‘The same 2 x 3 x 3 analysis of variance model was used to evaluate mean SET ratings. This

analysis produced two statistically significant main effects. The first main effect involved evaluation referring to a previous

footnote, 2.13
year, F(1.86, 716) = 3.44, MSE =

uation ratings associated

with the Year 3 administration (M = 3.26, SD = 0.60) were significantly lower than the evaluation ratings
associated with both the Year 1 (M = 3.35, SD = 0.53) and Year 2 (M = 3.38, SD = 0.54) administrations.

Thus, all courses received lower SET scores in Year 3, regardless of course delivery method and course

level. However, the size of this effect was small (the largest difference in mean rating was 0.11 ona five-

item scale). 5
footnote in page
footer, 2.13
10
» A Greenhouse ~Gelsser adjustment of the degrees of freedom was performed in anticipation of @ 41, MSE =
sphericity assumption violation.
* Atest of the homogeneity of varlance assumption revealed no statstcally significant difference in iificantly
response rate variance between the two delivery modes forthe 1st, 2nd, and 3rd years.
rand
Stability of Ratings
figure called out in The scatterplot presentedjn Figure 1 illustrates the relation between SET scores and response
text, 7.5; figure
Serene ey rate. Although the correlation between SET scores and response rate was small and not statistically
significant, r(362) = .07, visual inspection of the plot of SET scores suggests that SET ratings became less
variable as response rate increased, We conducted Levene's test to evaluate the variability of SET scores

parenthetical citation
of multiple papers by
etane acceptable threshold for response TRS (Berk, 2012, 2013; Nutty, 2008). The variability of scores above

above and below the 60% response rate, which several researchers have recommended as an

and below the 60% threshold was not statistically reliable, F(1, 362] =

53, p=.22.

Level 1 heading, 2.27, a Discussion
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

Online administration of SETS in this study was associated with lower response rates, yetiitis
curious that online courses experienced a 10% increase in response rate when all courses were
evaluated with online forms in Year 3. Online courses had suffered from chronically low response rates
in previous years, when face-to-face classes continued to use paper-based forms. The benefit to

response rates observed for online courses when all SET forms were admi

istered online might be
attributed to increased communications that encouraged students to complete the online course
evaluations, Despite this improvement, response rates for online courses continued to lag behind those

for face-to-face courses. Differences in response rates for face-to-face and online courses might be

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish



--- Page 109 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 110 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 111 ---

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 12

that SETs have acceptable response rates. Researchers have discussed effective strategies to improv ‘see also

response rates for SETs (Nulty, 2008; see also BErK, 2013; Dommeyer et al., 2004; Jaquet et al, 2016).

These strategies include offering empirically validated incer

s, creating high-qualit

technical systems.
with good human factors characteristics, and promoting an institutional culture that clearly supports the

use of SET data and other information to improve the quality of teaching and learning. Programs and

instructors must

uss why information from SETS is important for dec

n-making and provide

lum

students with tangible evidence of how SET information guides decisions about cu

improvement. The institution should provide students with compelling evidence that the administration

system protects the confidentiality of their responses.

Evaluating SET Scores Level 3 heading, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

In addition to ensuring adequate response rates on SETs, decision makers should demand

multiple sources of evidence about teaching quality ( igh-stakes decisions should never

parenthetical citation

rely exclusively on numeric data from SETS, Reviewers often treat SET ratings as a surrogate for a of a work with one
author, 8.17

measure of the impact an instructor has on student learning, However, a recent meta-analysis (Uttl et

al,, 2017) questioned whether SET scores have any relation to student learning. Reviewers need

evidence in addition to SET ratings to evaluate teaching, such as evi

ince of the instructor's di

inary
content expertise, skill with classroom management, ability to engage learners with lectures or other

activities, impact on student learning, or success with efforts to modify and improve courses and sauaminctites fictitem

ig strategies (Berk, 2013; Stark & Freishtat, 2014). As with other forms of assessment, any one of two works, 8.12

‘measure may be limited in terms of the quality of information it provides. Therefore, multiple measures

tea

are more informative than any single measure.

Al

include si

assignmel COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING B

samples of student work. Course syllabi can identify intended learning outcomes; describe instructional

strategies that reflect the rigor of the course (req

.d assignments and grading practices); and provide

other information about course content, design, instructional strategies, and instructor interactions with

students (Palmer et al., 2014; Stanny et al., 2015).

Level 2 heading, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

Conclusion

Psychology has a long history of devising creative strategies to measure the

ATprocess, an attitude, or the quality of teaching (e.g., Webb et

quotation marks used al,, 1966). In addition, psychologists have documented various heuristics and biases that contribute to

to indicate an ironic

Ganmnian, OD the misinterpretation of quantitative data (Gilovich et al., 2002), including SET scores (Boysen, 2015a,
2015b; Boysen et al., 2014), These skills enable psychologists to offer multiple solutions to the challenge
posed by the need to objectively evaluate the quality of teaching and the impact of teaching on student
learning.

Online administration of SET forms presents multiple desirable features, including rapid

feedback to instructors, economy, and support for environmental sust

ability. However,

tions

should adopt implementation procedures that do not undermine the usefulness of the data gathered.
Moreover, institutions should be wary of emphasizing procedures that produce high response rates only

tolull faculty into believing that SET data can be the primary (or only) metric used for high-stakes

decisions about the quality of faculty teaching, Instead, decision makers should expect to use multiple

measures to evaluate the quality of faculty teaching.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 112 ---

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 113 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 114 ---

reference list, 2.12,
Chapter 9; section

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING labels, 2.28
References
Avery, R. J., Bryant, W. K., Mathios, A., Kang, H., & Bell, D. (2006). Electronic course evaluations: Does an journal article reference,

10.1

online delivery system influence student evaluations? The Journal of Economic Education, 37(1),
21-37. https://doi.org/10.3200/JECE. 37.1.21-37

journal article reference
Berk, R. A. (2012). Top 20 strategies to increase the online response rates of student rating scales. without a DOI, 10.1

book reference, 10.2

International Journal of Technology in Teaching and Learning, 8(2}, 98-107.
Berk, R. A. (2013). Top 10 flashpoints in student ratings and the evaluation of teaching. Stylus.
Boysen, G. A. (2015a). Preventing the overinterpretation of small mean differences in student

evaluations of teaching: An evaluation of warning effectiveness, ScROWaTshiyrof Feachiag and

letters used after the
year for multiple works

Learning in Psychology, 1(4), 269-282. https://doi.org/10.1037/st10000042

Boysen, G. A. (2015b). Significant interpretation of small mean differences in student evaluations of with the same author
and year, 9.47

teaching despite explicit warning to avoid overinterpretation. Scholarship of Teaching and

Learning in Psychology, 1(2), 150-162. https://doi.org/10.1037/stl0000017 ‘3

Boysen, G. A., Kelly, T. J., Raesly, H. N., & Casner, R. W. (2014), The (mis)interpretation of teaching
evaluations by college faculty and administrators. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education,
396), 641-656, httpsi//doi,org/10,1080/02602938.2013,860950 i

Buller, J. L. (2012). Best practices in faculty evatuation: A practical guide for academic leaders. Jossey-
Bass.

variance

Dewar, J. M. (2011). Helping stakeholders understand the limitations of SRT data: Are we doing enough?

Journal of Faculty Development, 25(3), 40-44.

Dommeyer, C. J., Baum, P., & Hanna, R. W. (2002). College students’ attitudes toward methods of

bntuita
collecting teaching evaluations: In-class versus on-line. Journal of Education for Business, 78(1), vine
11-15. https://doi.org/10.1080/08832320209599691

rages

bn in

Jaquett, C. M., VanMaaren, V. G., & Williams, R. L. (2016). The effect of extra-credit incentives on
student submission of end-of-course evaluations. Scholarship of Teaching and Learning in
Psychology, 2(1), 49-61. https://doi.org/10.1037/stI0000052

Jaquett, C. M., VanMaaren, V. G., & Williams, R. L. (2017). Course factors that motivate students to.

submit end-of-course evaluations. /nnovative Higher Education, 42(1), 19-31,

Morrison, R. (2011). A comparison of online versus traditional student end-of-course critiques in
resident courses. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 36(6), 627-641.

https://doi.org/10.1080/02602931003632399

Nowell, C., Gale, L. R., & Handley, B, (2010). Assessing faculty performance using student evaluations of
teaching in an uncontrolled setting. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 35(4), 463—

475. https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930902862875

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 115 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 116 ---

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 16

Nulty, D. D. (2008). The adequacy of response rates to online and paper surveys: What can be done?
Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 33(3), 301-314.

https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930701293231

Palmer, M. S., Bach, D. J., & Streifer, A. C. (2014), Measuring the promise: A learning-focused syllabus
rubric. To Improve the Academy: A Journal of Educational Development, 33(1), 14-36.
https://doi.org/10.1002/tia2.20004

Reiner, C. M., & Arnold, K. E. (2010). Online course evaluation: Student and instructor perspectives and
assessment potential. Assessment Update, 22(2), 8-10. https://doi.org/10.1002/au.222

Risquez, A., Vaughan, E., & Murphy, M, (2015). Online student evaluations of teaching: What are we

sacrificing for the affordances of technology? Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education,

title ending with a

40(1), 210-234. htt (doi.org/10.1080/02602938.2014.890695 question mark, 9.19

Spooren, P., Brockx, B., & Mortelmans, D. (2013), On the validity of student evaluation of teaching: The

state of the art. Review of Educational Research, 83(4), 598-642.
https://doi.org/10.3102/0034654313496870

Stanny, C. J., Gonzalez, M., & McGowan, B. (2015). Assessing the culture of teaching and learning
through a syllabus review. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 40(7), 898-913.
https://doi.org/10.1080/02602938,2014,956684

Stark, P. B., & Freishtat, R. (2014). An evaluation of course evaluations. ScienceOpen Research.

https://doi.org/10.14293/52199-1006.1.SOR-EDU.AOFROA.v1

Stowell, J. R

eva

ttyl COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING v7
Tversky, A.,) Uttl, B., White, C. A., & Gonzalez, D. W. (2017). Meta-analysis of faculty's teaching effectiveness: Student

105 evaluation of teaching ratings and student learning are not related. Studies in Educational
journal article Evaluation, 54, 22-42. https://doi.org/10.1016/}.stueduc. 2016.08.007

reference with missing
issue number, 9.26

Venette, S., Sellnow, D., & Mcintyre, K. (2010). Charting new territory: Assessing the online frontier of

student ratings of instruction. Assessment & Evaluation in Higher Education, 35(1), 101-115.

https://doi.org/10.1080/02602930802618336

Webb, E. J., Campbell, D. T., Schwartz, R. D., & Sechrest, L. (1966). Unobtrusive measures: Nonreactive

research in the social sciences. Rand McNally.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 117 ---

Sample Professional Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 118 ---

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING

table number, 7.10
Table 1
table titl 1 Means and Standard Deviations for Response Rates (Course Delivery Method by Evaluation Year)
able title,

table note, 7.14 Note. Student evaluations of teaching (SETs) were administered in two modalities in Years 1 and 2:

18

‘Administration year Face-to-face course Online course
M SD M SD
Year 1; 2012 71,72 16.42 32,93 15.73
Year 2: 2013 72.31 14.93 32.55 15.96
Year 3: 2014 47.18 20.11 41.60 18,23

paper based for face-to-face courses and online for online courses. SETs were administered online for all

courses in Year 3.

figure number,
7.24

figure title, 7.25

figure note,

7.28

COMPARISON OF STUDENT EVALUATIONS OF TEACHING 19

Figure 1

Scatterplot Depicting the Correlation Between Response Rates and Evaluation Ratings

Evaluation Rating

0 20 40 60 80 100
Response Rate

Note, Evaluation ratings were made during the 2014 fall academic term.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish



--- Page 119 ---

Sample Student Paper
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 120 ---

Guided Imagery and Progressive Muscle Relaxation in Group Psychotherapy student title page, 2.

Hannah K. Greenbaum
Department of Psychology, The George Washington University
PSYC 3170: Clinical Psychology
Dr. Tia M. Benedetto

October 1, 2019

paper title, 2.4, 2.27,
Table 2.1, Figure 2.4

Guided Imagery and Progressive Muscle Relaxation in Group Psychotherapy

A majority of Americans experience stress in their daily lives (American Psychological

group author, 9.11 "Association, 2017). Thus, an important goal of psychological research is to evaluate techniques that

promote stress reduction and relaxation. Two techniques that have been associated with reduced stress

and increased relaxation in psychotherapy contexts are guided imagery and progressive muscle

(McGuigan & Lehrer, 2007). Guided imagery aids individuals in connecting their internal and

external experiences, alloying them, for example, to feel calmer externally because they practice

parenthetical citation
of a work with two
authors, 8.17

involves diaphragmatic breathing and the
a LS and releasing of 16 major muscle groups; together these behaviors lead individuals to a more
italics to highlight

a key term, 6.22 relaxed state (Jacobson, 1938; Trakhtenberg, 2008). Guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation

are both cognitive behavioral techniques (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005) in which individuals focus on the

relationship among thoughts, emotions, and behavigrs (White, 2000}.

parenthetical citation
of a work with one Group psychotherapy effectively promotes positive treatment outcomes in patients in a cost-

author, 8.17 effective way. Its efficacy is in part attributable to variables unique to the group experience of therapy

|. That is, the group

as compared with individual psychotherapy (Bottomley, 1996;

format helps participants fes d'better understand their common struggles; at the same

repeated citation

time, interactions with group members provide social support and models of positive behavior (Yalom &
needed, 8.1

“Leszcz, 2005). Thus, itis useful to examine how stress reduction and relaxation can be enhanced in a

group context.

‘The purpose of this literature review is to examine the research base on guided imagery and

use of first person, 4.

progressive muscle relaxation in group psychotherapy context of both guided

imagery and progressive muscle relaxation, including theoretical foundations and historical context,

Then | examine guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation as used on their own as well as in

(See Baier etal, 1994, for more). Throughout the review |

narrative citation in

parenthetical running combination as part of group psychother
text, 8.11

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 121 ---

Sample Student Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 122 ---

Sample Student Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 123 ---

experiences between group members. Teaching techniques and reflecting on the group process are
unique components of guided imagery received in a group context (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005).

Empirical research focused on guided imagery interventions supports the efficacy of the
technique with a variety of populations within hospital settings, with positive outcomes for individuals
diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and eating disorders (Utay & Miller, 2006). Guided imagery and
relaxation techniques have even been found to “reduce distress and allow the immune system to
‘unetion more effectively” (rakhtenberg, 2008, p 850). For example, Holden-tund (1988) examined

effects of a guided imagery intervention on surgical stress and wound healing in a group of 24 patients.

Patients listened to guided imagery recordings and reported reduced state anxiety, lower cortisol levels
repeated narrative citation with
following surgery, and less irritation in wound healing compared with a control group. Holden-Lund_ the year omitted, 8.16

concluded that the guided imagery recordings contributed to improved surgical recovery. It would be

teresting to see how the results might differ if guided imagery was practiced continually in a group

context.

Guided imagery has also been shown to reduce stress, length of hospital stay, and symptoms

and psychological conditions (Scherwitz etal, 2008), For example, Ballet al. (2003) “et al." citations for

related to me

works with three or
more authors, 8.17

conducted guided imagery in a group psychotherapy format with 11 children (ages 5-18) experiencing

recurrent abdominal pail

psychotherapy sessions
diaries and parent and
pain. Despite a small sa met once ina group to learn guided imagery and then practiced guided imagery individually on their
that guided imagery in a own (see Menzies et al., 2014, for more). Thus, itis unknown whether guided imagery would have
Level 1 heading, 2.27, different effects if implemented on an ongoing basis in group psychotherapy.

Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

Progressive Muscle Relaxation

atures of Progressive Muscle Relaxation
Level 2 heading, 2.27,
Table 2.3, Figure 2.5 Progressive muscle relaxation involves diaphragmatic or deep breathing and the tensing and

releasing of muscles in the body (Jacobson, 1938). Edmund Jacobson developed progressive muscle

relaxation in 1929 (as cited in Peterson et al., 2011) and directed participants to practice progressive

muscle relaxation several times a week for a year. After exa
intervention for stress or anxiety, Joseph Wolpe (1960; as cited in Peterson et a., 2011) theorized that

secondary source Telaxation was a promising treatment. In 1973, Bernstein and Borkovec created a manual for helping
citation, 8.6

’ning progressive muscle relaxation as an

Their clients progressive muscle relaxation, thereby bringing progressive muscle

narrative citation relaxation into the fold of interventions used in cognitive behavior therapy. In its current state,
with the year in the

a progressive muscle relaxation is often paired with relaxation training and described within a relaxation
narrative, 8.11

framework (see Freebird Meditations, 2012, for more).
Research on the use of progressive muscle relaxation for stress reduction has demonstrated the
efficacy of the method (McGuigan & Lehrer, 2007). As clients learn how to tense and release different

muscle groups, the physical relaxation achieved then influences psychological processes (McCallie et al,

2006}. For example, progressive muscle relaxation can help alleviate tension headaches, insomnia, pain,
and irritable bowel syndrome. This research demonstrates that relaxing the body can also help relax the
mind and lead to physical benefits.
Progressive Muscle Relaxation in Group Psychotherapy

Limited, but compelling, research has examined progressive muscle relaxation within group

psychotherapy. Progressive muscle relaxation has been used in outpatient and inpatient hospital

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 124 ---

Sample Student Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 125 ---

settings to reduce stress and physical symptoms (Peterson et al., 2011). For example, the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs integrates progressive muscle relaxation into therapy skills groups
(Hardy, 2017). The goal is for group members to practice progressive muscle relaxation throughout their
inpatient stay and then continue the practice at home to promote ongoing relief of symptoms (Yalom &
Leszcz, 2005).

long paraphrase, 8.24 “Yu (2004) examined the effects of multimodal progr

distress in 121 elderly patients with heart failure, Participants were randomized into experimental and

/e muscle relaxation on psychological

control groups. The experimental group received biweekly group sessions on progressive muscle
relaxation, as well as tape-directed self-practice and a revision workshop. The control group received
follow-up phone calls as a placebo. Results indicated that the experimental group exhibited significant
improvement in reports of psychological distress compared with the control group. Although this study
incorporated a multimodal form of progressive muscle relaxation, the experimental group met biweekly
in a group format; thus, the results may be applicable to group psychotherapy.

Progressive muscle relaxation has also been examined as a stress-reduction intervention with

large groups, albeit not therapy groups. Rausch et al. (2006) exposed a group of 387 college students to

time abbreviation, 6.28 20 min of either meditation, progressive muscle relaxation, or waiting as a control condition. Students
1 and progressive muscle relaxation recovered more quickly from subsequent
Se

exposed tom

stressors than did students in the control com

Thus, even small amo}

anxiety.
Guided

Combinations

muscle relaxation, have been shown to Improve psychiatric and medical symptoms when delivered ia
group psychotherapy context (Bottomley, 1996; Cunningham & Tocco, 1989). The research supports the
existence of immediate and long-term positive effects of guided imagery and progressive muscle

relaxation delivered in group psychotherapy (Baider et al., 1994). For example, Cohen and Fried (2007) narrative citation, 8.11;

paraphrasing, 8.23

examined the effect of group psychotherapy on 114 women diagnosed with breast cancer. The

researchers randomly assigned participants to three groups: (a) a control group, (b) a relaxation

psychotherapy group that received guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation interventions, or
(c)a cognitive behavioral therapy group, Participants reported less psychological distress in both
intervention groups compared with the control group, and participants in the relaxation psychotherapy
group reported reduced symptoms related to sleep and fatigue. The researchers concluded that
relaxation training using guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation in group psychotherapy is

effective for relieving distress in women diagnosed with breast cancer. These results further support the

utility of guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation within the group psychotherapy modality. Level 1 heading, 2.27,

Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

Conclusion
Limitations of Existing Research

Research on the use of guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation to achieve stress
reduction and relaxation is compelling but has significant limitations, Psychotherapy groups that

implement guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation are typically homogeneous, time limited,

and brief (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005). Relaxation training in group psychotherapy typically includes only one

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 126 ---

Sample Student Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 127 ---

usually expected to practice the techniques by themselves (see Menzies et al., 2014). Future research
should address how these relaxation techniques can assist people in diverse groups and how the impact
of relaxation techniques may be amplified if treatments are delivered in the group setting over time,
Future research should also examine differences in inpatient versus outpatient psychotherapy
groups as well as structured versus unstructured groups. The majority of research on the use of guided
imagery and progressive muscle relaxation with psychotherapy groups has used unstructured inpatient

groups (e.g., groups in a hospital setting). However, inpatient and outpatient groups are distinct, as are

structured versus unstructured groups, and each format offers potential advantages and limitations

(Yalom & Leszez, 2005). For example, an advantage of an unstructured group is that the group leader

can reflect the group process and focus on the “here and now,” which may improve the efficacy of the

relaxation techniques (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005). However, research also has supported the efficacy of
structured psychotherapy groups for patients with a variety of medical, psychiatric, and psychological

disorders (Hashim & Zainol, 2015; ee also Baider et al, 1994; Cohen & Fried, 2007) Empirical research “see also” citation, 8.12

assessing these interventions is limited, and further research is recommended.

a Level 2 heading, 2.27,
Directions for Future Research

Table 2.3, Figure 2.5

‘There are additional considerations when interpreting the results of previous studies and
planning for future studies of these techniques. For example, a lack of control groups and small sample
sizes have contributed to low statistical power and limited the generalizability of findings. Although the
current data support the efficacy of psychotherapy groups that integrate guided imagery and

progressive muscle relaxation, further research with control groups and larger samples would bolster

confidence in the efficac
participants over time, r
attrition. These factors a 9

rates and changes in me

participation (L, Plum, personal communication, March 17, 2019), Despite these challenges, continued

research examining guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation interventions within group

personal communication,

psychotherapy is warranted (Scherwitz et al., 2005). The results thus far are promising, and further

investigation has the potential to make relaxation techniques that can improve people's lives more

effective and widely available,

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 128 ---

Sample Student Paper (continued)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 129 ---

10

References

book reference, 10.2 Achterberg, J. (1985). Imagery in healing. Shambhala Publications.

‘American Psychological Association, (2017). Stress in America: The state of our nation.

report reference, 10.4
https://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/stress/2017/state-nation.pdf

7 = Baider, L,, U:
journal article reference, 10.1

cancer patients, General Hospital Psychiatry, 16(5), 340-347, https://doi.org/10.1016/0163-

8343(94)90021-3

ly, B., & Kaplan De-Nour, A. (1994). Progressive muscle relaxation and guided imagery in

Ball, T. M., Shapiro, D. €., Monheim, C. J, & Weydert, J. A. (2003). A pilot study of the use of guided
imagery for the treatment of recurrent abdominal pain in children. Clinical Pediatrics, 42(6),
527-832, httpsi//doi.org/10.1177/000992280304200607

Bemstein, D. A., & Borkovec, T. D. (1973). Progressive relaxation training: A manual for the helping
professions. Research Press.

Bottomley, A. (1996). Group cognitive behavioural therapy interventions with cancer patients: A review
of the literature. European Journal of Cancer Cure, 5(3), 143-146.
https://doi.org/10.1111/).1365-2354.1996.tb00225.x

Cohen, M., & Fried, G. (2007). Comparing relaxation training and cognitive-behavioral group therapy for
women with breast cancer. Research on Social Work Practice, 17(3), 313-323.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1049731506293741

Cunningham, A. J., & Tocco, E. K. (1989). A randomized trial of group psychoeducational therapy for
cancer patients, Patient Education and Counseling, 14(2), 101-114.

YouTube video https://doi.org/10.1016/0738-3991(89)90046-3

reference, 10.12

Freebird Meditations. (2012, June 17). Progressive muscle relaxation guided meditation [Video].

YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fDZI-dudE_o

ca

blog post

Hardy, K. (2017, October 8). Mindfulness is plentiful in “The post-traumatic insomnia workbook. nerome, 11

short URL, 9.36

Veterans Training Support Center. http://bit.ly/2D6ux8U

Hashim, H. A., & Zainol, N. A. (2015). Changes in emotional distress, short term memory, and sustained

attention following 6 and 12 sessions of progressive muscle relaxation tr

ingin 10-11 years
old primary school children, Psychology, Health & Medicine, 20(5), 623-628,

https://doi,org/10.1080/13548506,2014.1002851,

Holden-Lund, C. (1988). Effects of relaxation with guided imagery on surgical stress and wound healing.

Research in Nursing & Health, 11(4), 235-244, http://doi.org/dztedt 7
conference presentation
Jacobson, E, (1938), Progressive relaxation (2nd ed.). University of Chicago Press. reference, 10.5

shortDOI, 9.36

edited book chapter
0 reference, 10.3

applications. In P. M. Lehrer, R. L. Woolfolk, & W. E. Sime (Eds.), Principles and practice of stress

Lange, S. (1982, August 23-27). A realistic look at guided fantasy (Paper presentation], American

Psychological Association 90th Annual Convention, Washington, DC.

McCallie, M. S., Blum, C. M., & Hood, C. J. (2006). Progressive muscle relaxation. Journal of Human.

Behavior in the Social Environment, 13(3), 51-66. http://doi.ore/b54qm3

McGuigan, F. J., & Lehrer, P. M. (2007). Progressive relaxation: Origins, principles, and clinical

management (3rd ed., pp. 57-87). Guilford Press.
Menzies, V., Lyon, D. E,, Elswick, R. K,, Jr, McCain, N. L, & Gray, D. P, (2014). Effects of guided imagery

on biobehavioral factors in women with fibromyalgia. Journal of Behavioral Medicine, 37(1), 70-

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 130 ---

1The Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) describe how to make online content
accessible to people with disabilities (Web Accessibility Initiative, 2018).
2The sections and headings in the Publication Manual are numbered to aid indexing and
cross-referencing.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 131 ---

3
JOURNAL ARTICLE
REPORTING
STANDARDS
This chapter orients readers to a specialized set of guidelines developed by
APA referred to as journal article reporting standards, or JARS. These
standards provide guidelines for authors on what information should be
included, at minimum, in journal articles. By using JARS, authors can make
their research clearer, more accurate, and more transparent for readers.
Writing clearly and reporting research in a way that is easier to comprehend
helps ensure scientific rigor and methodological integrity and improves the
quality of published research. Reporting standards are closely related to the
way studies are designed and conducted, but they do not prescribe how to
design or execute studies, and they are not dependent on the topic of the
study or the particular journal in which the study might be published.
Comprehensive, uniform reporting standards make it easier to compare
research, to understand the implications of individual studies, and to allow
techniques of meta-analysis to proceed more efficiently. Decision makers in
policy and practice have also emphasized the importance of understanding
how research was conducted and what was found.
This chapter contains practical guidance for authors who will use JARS
when reporting their research—primarily, authors seeking professional
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 132 ---

publication as well as undergraduate or graduate students conducting
advanced research projects. Undergraduate students who are writing less
complicated research papers may also find the standards on the abstract and
introduction helpful (see Sections 3.3–3.4). Note that the information
available regarding JARS is substantial and detailed; this chapter is only an
introduction. The APA Style JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars)
contains a wealth of resources (links to many appear throughout this chapter).
JARS may also be revised and expanded in the future as new standards are
developed; any such changes will be reflected on the website. The sections
that follow discuss the application of the principles of JARS, including why
the standards exist and how they have evolved; terminology used to discuss
JARS, with a link to a glossary on the JARS website; reporting standards for
abstracts and introductions that pertain to all types of research articles; and
specific standards for quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 133 ---

Overview of Reporting Standards
3.1 Application of the Principles of JARS
By adopting and following JARS in their articles, researchers
help readers fully understand the research being reported and draw valid
conclusions from the work,
allow reviewers and editors to properly evaluate manuscripts submitted
for publication for their scientific value,
enable future researchers to replicate the research reported,
foster transparency (for more on the ethic of transparency in JARS, see
the JARS website at https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/transparency), and
improve the quality of published research.
Within these guidelines for reporting standards, however, is flexibility in how
the standards are applied across different types of research studies.
Guidelines on where to include information recommended in JARS within an
article are flexible in most cases (exceptions are information that must appear
in the title page, abstract, or author note; see Tables 3.1–3.3 later in this
chapter). In general, any information that is necessary to comprehend and
interpret the study should be in the text of the journal article, and information
that might be needed for replication can be included in supplemental
materials available online with few barriers to readers. Authors should
consult with journal editors to resolve questions regarding what information
to include and where, keeping readability of the article as a prime
consideration. Reviewers and editors are encouraged to learn to recognize
whether reporting standards have been met regardless of the rhetorical style
of the research presentation.
Reporting standards are evolving to reflect the needs of the research
community. The original JARS, published in American Psychologist (APA
Publications and Communications Board Working Group on Journal Article
Reporting Standards, 2008) as well as in the sixth edition of the Publication
Manual (APA, 2010), addressed only quantitative research. The updated
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 134 ---

JARS, published in 2018 (see Appelbaum et al., 2018; Levitt et al., 2018),
expands on the types of quantitative research (JARS–Quant) addressed and
now includes standards for reporting qualitative (JARS–Qual) and mixed
methods (JARS–Mixed) research. As research approaches continue to evolve,
authors should use these standards to support the publication of research; they
should not allow these standards to restrict the development of new methods.
3.2 Terminology Used in JARS
Researchers use many methods and strategies to meet their research goals,
and the guidelines in JARS were developed to facilitate the reporting of
research across a range of research traditions (Appelbaum et al., 2018; Levitt
et al., 2018). These methods fall into either quantitative (Sections 1.1 and
3.5–3.8), qualitative (Sections 1.2 and 3.13–3.16), or mixed methods
(Sections 1.3 and 3.18) traditions; separate reporting standards exist for each
tradition. There are also specialized standards for particular quantitative (see
Sections 3.9–3.12) and qualitative methodologies (see Section 3.17), such as
meta-analysis.
Given this diversity, the terms used in this chapter may be unfamiliar to
some readers. See the JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/glossary)
for a glossary of related terms, including “approaches to inquiry,” “data-
analytic strategies,” “data-collection strategies,” “methodological integrity,”
“research design,” and “trustworthiness.” Because researchers do not always
agree on terminology, we encourage authors to translate these terms to reflect
their own preferred approaches, taking care to define terms for readers. We
recognize that our language inevitably carries philosophical implications
(e.g., do researchers “discover,” “understand,” or “co-construct” findings?).
We also encourage reviewers and editors to view our terms as placeholders
that may be usefully varied by authors to reflect the values of their research
traditions.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 135 ---

Common Reporting Standards Across Research
Designs
Many aspects of the scientific process are common across quantitative,
qualitative, and mixed methods approaches. This section reviews reporting
standards that have considerable overlap for the two initial elements of
journal articles—the abstract and the introduction. We present the common
reporting standards for the abstract and introduction as well as some
distinctive features for each approach. For descriptions of and formatting
guidelines for the title, byline and institutional affiliation, author note,
running head, abstract, keywords, text (the body of a paper), reference list,
footnotes, appendices, and supplemental materials, see Chapter 2 (Sections
2.4–2.15).
3.3 Abstract Standards
An abstract is a brief, comprehensive summary of the contents of the paper.
A well-prepared abstract can be the most important paragraph in an article.
Many people have their first contact with an article by reading the title and
abstract, usually in comparison with several others, as they conduct a
literature search. Readers frequently decide on the basis of the abstract
whether to read the entire article. The abstract needs to be dense with
information. By embedding essential terms in your abstract, you enhance
readers’ ability to find the article. This section addresses the qualities of a
good abstract and standards for what to include in abstracts for different
paper types (see Sections 1.1–1.10). Requirements for abstract length and
instructions on formatting the abstract are presented in Section 2.9.
Qualities of a Good Abstract. A good abstract is
accurate: Ensure that the abstract correctly reflects the purpose and
content of the paper. Do not include information that does not appear in
the paper body. If the study extends or replicates previous research, cite
the relevant work with an author–date citation.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 136 ---

nonevaluative: Report rather than evaluate; do not add to or comment on
what is in the body of the paper.
coherent and readable: Write in clear and deliberate language. Use verbs
rather than their noun equivalents and the active rather than the passive
voice (e.g., “investigated” instead of “an investigation of”; “we present
results” instead of “results are presented”; see Section 4.13). Use the
present tense to describe conclusions drawn or results with continuing
applicability; use the past tense to describe specific variables manipulated
or outcomes measured. If presenting statistical or mathematical
information, see Sections 6.40 to 6.48 for the appropriate formats.
concise: Be brief, and make each sentence maximally informative,
especially the lead sentence. Begin the abstract with the most important
points. Do not waste space by repeating the title. Include only the four or
five most important concepts, findings, or implications. Use the specific
words in your abstract that you think your audience will use in their
searches.
Empirical Articles. The abstract for an empirical article (quantitative,
qualitative, or mixed methods; see Sections 1.1–1.3) should describe the
following:
the problem under investigation, in one sentence, if possible; when
presenting quantitative analyses, include the main hypotheses, questions,
or theories under investigation
participants or data sources, specifying pertinent characteristics (e.g., for
nonhuman animal research, include the genus and species); participants
will be described in greater detail in the body of the paper
essential features of the study method, including
research design (e.g., experimental, observational, qualitative, mixed
methods)
analytic strategy (e.g., ethnography, factor analysis)
data-gathering procedures
sample size (typically for quantitative analyses) or description of the
volume of observations or number of participants (typically for
qualitative analyses)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 137 ---

materials or central measures used
a statement about whether the study is a secondary data analysis
basic findings, including
for quantitative analyses, effect sizes and confidence intervals in
addition to statistical significance levels when possible
for qualitative methods, main findings in relation to central contextual
features
conclusions and implications or applications of the research findings
Replication Articles. The abstract for a replication article (see Section 1.4)
should describe the following:
type of replication being reported (e.g., direct [exact, literal], approximate,
conceptual [construct])
scope of the replication in detail
original study or studies that are being replicated
general conclusions reached in the replication
Quantitative or Qualitative Meta-Analyses. The abstract for a quantitative
or qualitative meta-analysis (see Section 1.5) should describe the following:
research problems, questions, or hypotheses under investigation
characteristics for the inclusion of studies, including
for quantitative meta-analyses, independent variables, dependent
variables, and eligible study designs
for qualitative meta-analyses, criteria for eligibility in terms of study
topic and research design
methods of synthesis, including statistical or qualitative metamethods
used to summarize or compare studies and specific methods used to
integrate studies
main results, including
for all studies, the number of studies; the number of participants,
observations, or data sources; and their important characteristics
for quantitative analyses, the most important effect sizes and any
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 138 ---

important moderators of these effect sizes
for qualitative analyses, the most important findings in their context
conclusions (including limitations)
implications for theory, policy, and/or practice
Literature Review Articles. The abstract for a literature review article (also
called a narrative literature review article; see Section 1.6) should describe
the substantive content being reviewed, including the following:
scope of the literature examined in the review (e.g., journals, books,
unpublished abstracts) and the number of items included in the review
period of time covered in the review (e.g., range of years)
general conclusions reached in the review
Theoretical Articles. The abstract for a theoretical article (see Section 1.7)
should describe the following:
how the theory or model works and/or the principles on which it is based
what phenomena the theory or model accounts for and linkages to
empirical results
Methodological Articles. The abstract for a methodological article (see
Section 1.8) should describe the following:
general class, essential features, and range of applications of the methods,
methodologies, or epistemological beliefs being discussed
essential features of the approaches being reported, such as robustness or
power efficiency in the case of statistical procedures or methodological
integrity and trustworthiness in the case of qualitative methods
3.4 Introduction Standards
The body of a paper always opens with an introduction. The introduction
contains a succinct description of the issues being reported, their historical
antecedents, and the study objectives.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 139 ---

Frame the Importance of the Problem. The introduction of an article
frames the issues being studied. Consider the various concerns on which your
issue touches and its effects on other outcomes (e.g., the effects of shared
storybook reading on word learning in children). This framing may be in
terms of fundamental psychological theory, potential application including
therapeutic uses, input for public policy, and so forth. Proper framing helps
set readers’ expectations for what the report will and will not include.
Historical Antecedents. Review the literature succinctly to convey to readers
the scope of the problem, its context, and its theoretical or practical
implications. Clarify which elements of your paper have been subject to prior
investigation and how your work differs from earlier reports. In this process,
describe any key issues, debates, and theoretical frameworks and clarify
barriers, knowledge gaps, or practical needs. Including these descriptions will
show how your work builds usefully on what has already been accomplished
in the field.
Articulate Study Goals. Clearly state and delimit the aims, objectives,
and/or goals of your study. Make explicit the rationale for the fit of your
design in relation to your aims and goals. Describe the goals in a way that
clarifies the appropriateness of the methods you used.
Quantitative Goals. In a quantitative article, the introduction should identify
the primary and secondary hypotheses as well as any exploratory hypotheses,
specifying how the hypotheses derive from ideas discussed in previous
research and whether exploratory hypotheses were derived as a result of
planned or unplanned analyses.
Qualitative Goals. In a qualitative article, the introduction may contain case
examples, personal narratives, vignettes, or other illustrative materials. It
should describe your research goal(s) and approach to inquiry. Examples of
qualitative research goals include developing theory, hypotheses, and deep
understandings (e.g., Hill, 2012; Stiles, 1993); examining the development of
a social construct (e.g., Neimeyer et al., 2008); addressing societal injustices
(e.g., Fine, 2013); and illuminating social discursive practices—that is, the
way interpersonal and public communications are enacted (e.g., Parker,
2015). The term approaches to inquiry refers to the philosophical
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 140 ---

assumptions that underlie research traditions or strategies—for example, the
researchers’ epistemological beliefs, worldview, paradigm, strategies, or
research traditions (Creswell & Poth, 2018; Morrow, 2005; Ponterotto, 2005).
For instance, you might indicate that your approach or approaches to inquiry
are constructivist, critical, descriptive, feminist, interpretive, postmodern,
postpositivist, pragmatic, or psychoanalytic. Note that researchers may define
these philosophies differently, and some qualitative research is more question
driven and pragmatic than theoretical. You might also address your approach
to inquiry in the Method section (see Section 3.14).
Mixed Methods Goals. In a mixed methods or multimethod article, the
introduction should describe the objectives for all study components
presented, the rationale for their being presented in one study, and the
rationale for the order in which they are presented within the paper (see
Section 3.18). In all cases, clarify how the questions or hypotheses under
examination led to the research design to meet the study aims.
Goals for Other Types of Papers. Introductions for other types of papers
follow similar principles and articulate the specific motivation for the study.
For instance, a replication study conducted as a quantitative study would
have an introduction that follows the principles for the introduction of a
quantitative study but that emphasizes the need to replicate a certain study or
set of studies as well as the methods used to accomplish the desired
replication.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 141 ---

Reporting Standards for Quantitative Research
3.5 Basic Expectations for Quantitative Research Reporting
Whereas standards for reporting information in the abstract and introduction
of a paper are common to all kinds of research (see Sections 3.3–3.4), there
are specific reporting standards for quantitative research articles, including
the Method, Results, and Discussion sections (see Sections 3.6–3.8). Note
that this is a conceptual separation, but in practice, the information specified
in these three sets of reporting standards may be intermixed in several
sections of the paper to optimize readability. Standards specific to qualitative
and mixed methods research are presented in Sections 3.13 to 3.17 and 3.18,
respectively.
The basic expectations for reporting quantitative research are presented in
Table 3.1.1 This table describes minimal reporting standards that apply to all
quantitative-based inquires. Additional tables describe other reporting
features that are added because of particular design features or empirical
claims. Consult Figure 3.1 to determine which tables to use for your
quantitative research and for links to all tables on the JARS website (because
this chapter is an orientation to JARS, only the main quantitative table is
presented here). Every empirical study must include features from Table 3.1
plus features from at least one additional table. The content of Table 3.1 by
itself is not sufficient as a description of reporting standards for quantitative
studies. See Sections 3.9 to 3.12 for descriptions of each additional table.
Table 3.1 Quantitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Quant)
Title and Title Page
Title
Identify main variables and theoretical issues under investigation and the relationships between them.
Identify the populations studied.
Author Note
Provide acknowledgment and explanation of any special circumstances, including
registration information if the study has been registered
use of data also appearing in previous publications
prior reporting of the fundamental data in dissertations or conference papers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 142 ---

sources of funding or other support
relationships or affiliations that may be perceived as conflicts of interest
previous (or current) affiliation of authors if different from the location where the study was
conducted
contact information for the corresponding author
additional information of importance to the reader that may not be appropriately included in other
sections of the paper
Abstract
Objectives
State the problem under investigation, including main hypotheses.
Participants
Describe subjects (nonhuman animal research) or participants (human research), specifying their
pertinent characteristics for the study; in animal research, include genus and species. Participants are
described in greater detail in the body of the paper.
Study Method
Describe the study method, including
research design (e.g., experiment, observational study)
sample size
materials used (e.g., instruments, apparatus)
outcome measures
data-gathering procedures, including a brief description of the source of any secondary data. If the
study is a secondary data analysis, so indicate.
Findings
Report findings, including effect sizes and confidence intervals or statistical significance levels.
Conclusions
State conclusions, beyond just results, and report the implications or applications.
Introduction
Problem
State the importance of the problem, including theoretical or practical implications.
Review of Relevant Scholarship
Provide a succinct review of relevant scholarship, including
relation to previous work
differences between the current report and earlier reports if some aspects of this study have been
reported on previously
Hypothesis, Aims, and Objectives
State specific hypotheses, aims, and objectives, including
theories or other means used to derive hypotheses
primary and secondary hypotheses
other planned analyses
State how hypotheses and research design relate to one another.
Method
Inclusion and Exclusion
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 143 ---

Report inclusion and exclusion criteria, including any restrictions based on demographic
characteristics.
Participant Characteristics
Report major demographic characteristics (e.g., age, sex, ethnicity, socioeconomic status) and
important topic-specific characteristics (e.g., achievement level in studies of educational
interventions).
In the case of animal research, report the genus, species, and strain number or other specific
identification, such as the name and location of the supplier and the stock designation. Give the
number of animals and the animals’ sex, age, weight, physiological condition, genetic modification
status, genotype, health–immune status, drug or test naïveté, and previous procedures to which the
animal may have been subjected.
Sampling Procedures
Describe procedures for selecting participants, including
sampling method if a systematic sampling plan was implemented
percentage of the sample approached that actually participated
whether self-selection into the study occurred (either by individuals or by units, such as schools or
clinics)
Describe settings and locations where data were collected as well as dates of data collection.
Describe agreements and payments made to participants.
Describe institutional review board agreements, ethical standards met, and safety monitoring.
Sample Size, Power, and Precision
Describe the sample size, power, and precision, including
intended sample size
achieved sample size, if different from the intended sample size
determination of sample size, including
power analysis, or methods used to determine precision of parameter estimates
explanation of any interim analyses and stopping rules employed
Measures and Covariates
Define all primary and secondary measures and covariates, including measures collected but not
included in the report.
Data Collection
Describe methods used to collect data.
Quality of Measurements
Describe methods used to enhance the quality of measurements, including
training and reliability of data collectors
use of multiple observations
Instrumentation
Provide information on validated or ad hoc instruments created for individual studies (e.g.,
psychometric and biometric properties).
Masking
Report whether participants, those administering the experimental manipulations, and those
assessing the outcomes were aware of condition assignments.
If masking took place, provide a statement regarding how it was accomplished and whether and how
the success of masking was evaluated.
Psychometrics
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 144 ---

Estimate and report reliability coefficients for the scores analyzed (i.e., the researcher’s sample), if
possible. Provide estimates of convergent and discriminant validity where relevant.
Report estimates related to the reliability of measures, including
interrater reliability for subjectively scored measures and ratings
test–retest coefficients in longitudinal studies in which the retest interval corresponds to the
measurement schedule used in the study
internal consistency coefficients for composite scales in which these indices are appropriate for
understanding the nature of the instruments being used in the study
Report the basic demographic characteristics of other samples if reporting reliability or validity
coefficients from those samples, such as those described in test manuals or in norming information for
the instrument.
Conditions and Design
State whether conditions were manipulated or naturally observed. Report the type of design as per the
JARS–Quant tables:
experimental manipulation with participants randomized
Table 2 and Module A
experimental manipulation without randomization
Table 2 and Module B
clinical trial with randomization
Table 2 and Modules A and C
clinical trial without randomization
Table 2 and Modules B and C
nonexperimental design (i.e., no experimental manipulation): observational design, epidemiological
design, natural history, and so forth (single-group designs or multiple-group comparisons)
Table 3
longitudinal design
Table 4
N-of-1 studies
Table 5
replications
Table 6
Report the common name given to designs not currently covered in JARS–Quant.
Data Diagnostics
Describe planned data diagnostics, including
criteria for post-data-collection exclusion of participants, if any
criteria for deciding when to infer missing data and methods used for imputation of missing data
definition and processing of statistical outliers
analyses of data distributions
data transformations to be used, if any
Analytic Strategy
Describe the analytic strategy for inferential statistics and protection against experiment-wise error for
primary hypotheses
secondary hypotheses
exploratory hypotheses
Results
Participant Flow
Report the flow of participants, including
total number of participants in each group at each stage of the study
flow of participants through each stage of the study (include figure depicting flow, when possible;
see Figure 7.5)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 145 ---

Recruitment
Provide dates defining the periods of recruitment and repeated measures or follow-up.
Statistics and Data Analysis
Provide information detailing the statistical and data-analytic methods used, including
missing data
frequency or percentages of missing data
empirical evidence and/or theoretical arguments for the causes of data that are missing—for
example, missing completely at random (MCAR), missing at random (MAR), or missing not at
random (MNAR)
methods actually used for addressing missing data, if any
descriptions of each primary and secondary outcome, including the total sample and each
subgroup, that includes the number of cases, cell means, standard deviations, and other measures
that characterize the data used
inferential statistics, including
results of all inferential tests conducted, including exact p values if null hypothesis significance
testing (NHST) methods were used, and reporting the minimally sufficient set of statistics (e.g.,
dfs, mean square [MS] effect, MS error) needed to construct the tests
effect-size estimates and confidence intervals on estimates that correspond to each inferential
test conducted, when possible
clear differentiation between primary hypotheses and their tests–estimates, secondary
hypotheses and their tests–estimates, and exploratory hypotheses and their test–estimates
complex data analyses—for example, structural equation modeling analyses (see Table 7 on the
JARS website), hierarchical linear models, factor analysis, multivariate analyses, and so forth,
including
details of the models estimated
associated variance–covariance (or correlation) matrix or matrices
identification of the statistical software used to run the analyses (e.g., SAS PROC GLM or the
particular R package)
estimation problems (e.g., failure to converge, bad solution spaces), regression diagnostics, or
analytic anomalies that were detected and solutions to those problems
other data analyses performed, including adjusted analyses, if performed, indicating those that
were planned and those that were not planned (though not necessarily in the level of detail of
primary analyses)
Report any problems with statistical assumptions and/or data distributions that could affect the validity
of findings.
Discussion
Support of Original Hypotheses
Provide a statement of support or nonsupport for all hypotheses, whether primary or secondary,
including
distinction by primary and secondary hypotheses
discussion of the implications of exploratory analyses in terms of both substantive findings and
error rates that may be uncontrolled
Similarity of Results
Discuss similarities and differences between reported results and work of others.
Interpretation
Provide an interpretation of the results, taking into account
sources of potential bias and threats to internal and statistical validity
imprecision of measurement protocols
overall number of tests or overlap among tests
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 146 ---

adequacy of sample sizes and sampling validity
Generalizability
Discuss generalizability (external validity) of the findings, taking into account
target population (sampling validity)
other contextual issues (setting, measurement, time; ecological validity)
Implications
Discuss implications for future research, programs, or policy.
Figure 3.1 Flowchart of Quantitative Reporting Standards to Follow
Depending on Research Design
Note. JARS–Quant = quantitative journal article reporting standards. For more information,
see the APA Style JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 147 ---

3.6 Quantitative Method Standards
The Method section of a paper provides most of the information that readers
need to fully comprehend what was done in the execution of an empirical
study. This section provides information that allows readers to understand the
research being reported and that is essential for replication of the study,
although the concept of replication may depend on the nature of the study.
The basic information needed to understand the results should (as a rule)
appear in the main article, whereas other methodological information (e.g.,
detailed descriptions of procedures) may appear in supplemental materials.
Readability of the resulting paper must be part of the decision about where
material is ultimately located. Details of what content needs to be presented
in the Method section of a quantitative article are presented in Table 3.1 and
must be used in conjunction with JARS–Quant Tables 2 to 9 on the JARS
website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/quantitative).
Participant (Subject) Characteristics. Appropriate identification of
research participants is critical to the science and practice of psychology,
particularly for generalizing the findings, making comparisons across
replications, and using the evidence in research syntheses and secondary data
analyses.
Detail the major demographic characteristics of the sample, such as age;
sex; ethnic and/or racial group; level of education; socioeconomic,
generational, or immigrant status; disability status; sexual orientation; gender
identity; and language preference, as well as important topic-specific
characteristics (e.g., achievement level in studies of educational
interventions). As a rule, describe the groups as specifically as possible,
emphasizing characteristics that may have bearing on the interpretation of
results. Participant characteristics can be important for understanding the
nature of the sample and the degree to which results can be generalized. For
example, the following is a useful characterization of a sample:
The second group included 40 cisgender women between the ages of 20
and 30 years (M = 24.2, SD = 2.1, Mdn = 25.1), all of whom had emigrated
from El Salvador; had at least 12 years of education; had been permanent
residents of the United States for at least 10 years; and lived in
Washington, DC.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 148 ---

To help readers determine how far the data can be generalized, you may find
it useful to identify subgroups.
The Asian participants included 30 Chinese and 45 Vietnamese persons.
Among the Latino and Hispanic American men, 20 were Mexican American
and 20 were Puerto Rican.
Even when a characteristic is not used in analysis of the data, reporting it may
give readers a more complete understanding of the sample and the
generalizability of results and may prove useful in meta-analytic studies that
incorporate the article’s results. The descriptions of participant characteristics
should be sensitive to the ways the participants understand and express their
identities, statuses, histories, and so forth. Chapter 5 contains further
guidance on writing without bias.
When nonhuman animal subjects are used, report the genus, species, and
strain number or other specific identifier, such as the name and location of the
supplier and the stock designation. Give the number of nonhuman animal
subjects and their sex, age, weight, and physiological condition.
Sampling Procedures. Describe the procedures for selecting participants,
including (a) the sampling method, if a systematic plan was implemented; (b)
the percentage of the sample approached that participated; and (c) whether
self-selection into the study occurred (either by individuals or by units such
as schools or clinics) and the number of participants who selected themselves
into the sample. Report inclusion and exclusion criteria, including any
restriction based on demographic characteristics.
Describe the settings and locations in which the data were collected and
provide the dates of data collection as a general range of dates, including
dates for repeated measurements and follow-ups. Describe any agreements
with and payments made to participants. Note institutional review board
approvals, data safety board arrangements, and other indications of
compliance with ethical standards.
Sample Size, Power, and Precision. Provide the intended size of the sample
and number of individuals meant to be in each condition if separate
conditions were used. State whether the achieved sample differed in known
ways from the intended sample. Conclusions and interpretations should not
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 149 ---

go beyond what the achieved sample warrants. State how the intended sample
size was determined (e.g., analysis of power or precision). If interim analysis
and stopping rules were used to modify the desired sample size, describe the
methodology and results of applying that methodology.
Measures and Covariates. Include in the Method section definitions of all
primary and secondary outcome measures and covariates, including measures
collected but not included in the current report. Provide information on
instruments used, including their psychometric and biometric properties and
evidence of cultural validity (Section 3.10 for how to cite hardware and
apparatuses; see Section 10.11 for how to cite tests, scales, and inventories).
Data Collection. Describe the methods used to collect data (e.g., written
questionnaires, interviews, observations). Provide information on any
masking of participants in the research (i.e., whether participants, those
administering the manipulations, and/or those assessing the outcomes were
unaware of participants’ assignment to conditions), how masking was
accomplished, and how the masking was assessed. Describe the
instrumentation used in the study, including standardized assessments,
physical equipment, and imaging protocols, in sufficient detail to allow exact
replication of the study.
Quality of Measurements. Describe methods used to enhance the quality of
measurements, including training and reliability of data collectors, use of
multiple observers, translation of research materials, and pretesting of
materials on populations who were not included in the initial development of
the instrumentation. Pay attention to the psychometric properties of the
measurement in the context of contemporary testing standards and the sample
being investigated; report the psychometric characteristics of the instruments
used following the principles articulated in the Standards for Educational and
Psychological Testing (American Educational Research Association et al.,
2014). In addition to psychometric characteristics for paper-and-pencil
measures, provide interrater reliabilities for subjectively scored measures and
ratings. Internal consistency coefficients can be useful for understanding
composite scales.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 150 ---

Research Design. Specify the research design in the Method section. For
example, were participants placed into conditions that were manipulated, or
were they observed in their natural setting? If multiple conditions were
created, how were participants assigned to conditions—through random
assignment or some other selection mechanism? Was the study conducted as
a between-subjects or a within-subjects design? Reporting standards vary on
the basis of the research design (e.g., experimental manipulation with
randomization, clinical trial without randomization, longitudinal design).
Consult Figure 3.1 to determine which tables on the JARS website to use for
your research design. See Sections 3.9 and 3.10 for a summary of design-
specific reporting standards. See Section 3.11 for standards for particular
analytic methods and Section 3.12 for quantitative meta-analysis standards.
Studies can be mixtures of various types; for instance, a study may involve
an experimental manipulation with randomization with some factors repeated
in a longitudinal fashion. For studies not currently covered by JARS, provide
the commonly used name for that design. For more on mixed methods
designs, see Section 3.18.
Experimental Manipulations or Interventions. If experimental
manipulations or interventions were used in the study, describe their specific
content. Include details of the interventions or manipulations intended for
each study condition, including control groups (if any), and describe how and
when interventions or experimental manipulations were administered.
Describe the essential features of “treatment as usual” if that is included as a
study or control condition.
Carefully describe the content of the specific interventions or experimental
manipulations used. Often, this involves presenting a brief summary of
instructions given to participants. If the instructions are unusual, or if the
instructions themselves constitute the experimental manipulation, present
them verbatim in an appendix or supplemental materials. If the text is brief,
present it in the body of the paper if it does not interfere with the readability
of the report.
Describe the methods of manipulation and data acquisition. If a mechanical
apparatus was used to present stimulus materials or to collect data, include in
the description of procedures the apparatus model number and manufacturer
(when important, as in neuroimaging studies), its key settings or parameters
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 151 ---

(e.g., pulse settings), and its resolution (e.g., stimulus delivery, recording
precision). As with the description of the experimental manipulation or
intervention, this material may be presented in the body of the paper, in an
appendix, or in supplemental materials, as appropriate.
When relevant—such as in the delivery of clinical and educational
interventions—the procedures should also contain a description of who
delivered the intervention, including their level of professional training and
their level of training in the specific intervention. Present the number of
deliverers along with the mean, standard deviation, and range of number of
individuals or units treated by each deliverer.
Provide information about (a) the setting in which the manipulation or
intervention was delivered, (b) the intended quantity and duration of exposure
to the manipulation or intervention (i.e., how many sessions, episodes, or
events were intended to be delivered and how long they were intended to
last), (c) the time span for the delivery of the manipulation or intervention of
each unit (e.g., whether the manipulation delivery was completed in one
session, or, if participants returned for multiple sessions, how much time
passed between the first and last session), and (d) activities or incentives used
to increase compliance.
When an instrument is translated into a language other than the language in
which it was developed, describe the specific method of translation (e.g.,
back-translation, in which a text is translated into another language and then
back into the first language to ensure that it is equivalent enough that results
can be compared).
Describe how participants were grouped during data acquisition (i.e., was
the manipulation or intervention administered individual by individual, in
small groups, or in intact groupings such as classrooms?). Indentify the
smallest unit (e.g., individuals, work groups, classes) that was analyzed to
assess effects. If the unit used for statistical analysis differed from the unit
used to deliver the intervention or manipulation (i.e., from the unit of
randomization), describe the analytic method used to account for this (e.g.,
adjusting the standard error estimates, using multilevel analysis).
Data Diagnosis. Describe how data were inspected after collection and, if
relevant, any modifications of those data. These procedures may include
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 152 ---

outlier detection and processing, data transformations based on empirical data
distributions, and treatment of missing data or imputation of missing values.
Analytic Strategies. Describe the quantitative analytic strategies (usually
statistical) used in analysis of the data, being careful to describe error-rate
considerations (e.g., experiment-wise, false discovery rate). The analytic
strategies should be described for primary, secondary, and exploratory
hypotheses. Exploratory hypotheses are ones that were suggested by the data
collected in the study being reported, as opposed to ones generated by
theoretical considerations or previously reported empirical studies.
When applying inferential statistics, take seriously the statistical power
considerations associated with the tests of hypotheses. Such considerations
relate to the likelihood of correctly rejecting the tested hypotheses given a
particular alpha level, effect size, and sample size. In that regard, provide
evidence that the study has sufficient power to detect effects of substantive
interest. Be careful in discussing the role played by sample size in cases in
which not rejecting the null hypothesis is desirable (i.e., when one wishes to
argue that there are no differences), when testing various assumptions
underlying the statistical model adopted (e.g., normality, homogeneity of
variance, homogeneity of regression), and in model fitting. Alternatively, use
calculations based on a chosen target precision (confidence interval width) to
determine sample sizes. Use the resulting confidence intervals to justify
conclusions reached concerning effect sizes.
3.7 Quantitative Results Standards
In the Results section of a quantitative paper, summarize the collected data
and the results of any analyses performed on those data relevant to the
discourse that is to follow. Report the data in sufficient detail to justify your
conclusions. Mention all relevant results, regardless of whether your
hypotheses were supported, including results that run counter to expectation;
include small effect sizes (or statistically nonsignificant findings) when
theory predicts large (or statistically significant) ones. Do not hide
uncomfortable results by omission. In the spirit of data sharing (encouraged
by APA and other professional associations and sometimes required by
funding agencies; see Section 1.14), raw data, including study characteristics
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 153 ---

and individual effect sizes used in a meta-analysis, can be made available as
supplemental materials (see Section 2.15) or archived online (see Section
10.9). However, raw data (and individual scores) generally are not presented
in the body of the article because of length considerations. The implications
of the results should be discussed in the Discussion section.
Participant Flow. For experimental and quasi-experimental designs, provide
a description of the flow of participants (humans, nonhuman animals, or units
such as classrooms or hospital wards) through the study. Present the total
number of participants recruited into the study and the number of participants
assigned to each group. Provide the number of participants who did not
complete the experiment or who crossed over to other conditions and explain
why. Note the number of participants used in the primary analyses. (This
number might differ from the number who completed the study because
participants might not show up for or complete the final measurement.) See
Figure 7.5 in Section 7.36 for an example flowchart that displays the flow of
participants through each stage of a study.
Recruitment. Provide dates defining the periods of recruitment and follow-
up and the primary sources of participants, when appropriate. If recruitment
and follow-up dates differ by group, provide the dates for each group.
Statistics and Data Analysis. Analyses of the data and reporting of the
results of those analyses are fundamental aspects of the conduct of research.
Accurate, unbiased, complete, and insightful reporting of the analytic
treatment of data (be it quantitative or qualitative) must be a component of all
research reports. Researchers in the field of psychology use numerous
approaches to the analysis of data, and no one approach is uniformly
preferred as long as the method is appropriate to the research questions being
asked and the nature of the data collected. The methods used must support
their analytic burdens, including robustness to violations of the assumptions
that underlie them, and must provide clear, unequivocal insights into the data.
In reporting your statistical and data analyses, adhere to the organizational
structure suggested in the Method section (see Section 3.6): primary
hypotheses, secondary hypotheses, and exploratory hypotheses. Ensure that
you have reported the results of data diagnoses (see Section 3.6) in the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 154 ---

Method section before you report the results linked to hypothesis
confirmation or disconfirmation. Discuss any exclusions, transformations, or
imputation decisions that resulted from the data diagnosis.
Historically, researchers in psychology have relied heavily on null
hypothesis significance testing (NHST) as a starting point for many of their
analytic approaches. Different fields and publishers have different policies;
APA, for example, stresses that NHST is but a starting point and that
additional reporting elements such as effect sizes, confidence intervals, and
extensive description are needed to convey the most complete meaning of the
results (Wilkinson & the Task Force on Statistical Inference, 1999; see also
APA, n.d.-b). The degree to which any journal emphasizes NHST is a
decision of the individual editor. However, complete reporting of all tested
hypotheses and estimates of appropriate effect sizes and confidence intervals
are the minimum expectations for all APA journals. Researchers are always
responsible for the accurate and responsible reporting of the results of their
research study.
Assume that readers have a professional knowledge of statistical methods.
Do not review basic concepts and procedures or provide citations for the
most commonly used statistical procedures. If, however, there is any question
about the appropriateness of a particular statistical procedure, justify its use
by clearly stating the evidence that exists for the robustness of the procedure
as applied.
Missing Data. Missing data can have a detrimental effect on the legitimacy
of the inferences drawn by statistical tests. It is critical that the frequency or
percentages of missing data be reported along with any empirical evidence
and/or theoretical arguments for the causes of data that are missing. Data
might be described as missing completely at random (as when values of the
missing variable are not related to the probability that they are missing or to
the value of any other variable in the data set), missing at random (as when
the probability of missing a value on a variable is not related to the missing
value itself but may be related to other completely observed variables in the
data set), or not missing at random (as when the probability of observing a
given value for a variable is related to the missing value itself). It is also
important to describe the methods for addressing missing data, if any were
used (e.g., multiple imputation).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 155 ---

Reporting Results of Inferential Statistical Tests. When reporting the results
of inferential statistical tests or when providing estimates of parameters or
effect sizes, include sufficient information to help readers fully understand
the analyses conducted and possible alternative explanations for the outcomes
of those analyses. Because each analytic technique depends on different
aspects of the data and assumptions, it is impossible to specify what
constitutes a “sufficient set of statistics” in general terms. However, such a
set usually includes at least the following: per-cell sample sizes, observed cell
means (or frequencies of cases in each category for a categorical variable),
and cell standard deviations or pooled within-cell variance. In the case of
multivariable analytic systems, such as multivariate analyses of variance,
regression analyses, structural equation modeling, and hierarchical linear
modeling, the associated means, sample sizes, and variance–covariance (or
correlation) matrix or matrices often represent a sufficient set of statistics. At
times, the amount of information that constitutes a sufficient set of statistics
is extensive; when this is the case, the information could be supplied in a
supplementary data set or an appendix (see Sections 2.14–2.15). For analyses
based on small samples (including N-of-1 investigations; see Section 3.10),
consider providing the complete set of raw data in a table or figure, provided
that confidentiality can be maintained. Your work will more easily become a
part of the cumulative knowledge of the field if you include enough statistical
information to allow its inclusion in future meta-analyses.
For inferential statistical tests (e.g., t, F, and chi-square tests), include the
obtained magnitude or value of the test statistic, the degrees of freedom, the
probability of obtaining a value as extreme as or more extreme than the one
obtained (exact p value), and the size and direction of the effect. When point
estimates (e.g., sample means, regression coefficients) are provided, always
include an associated measure of variability (precision), with an indication of
the specific measure used (e.g., standard error).
Inclusion of Confidence Intervals. It can be extremely effective to include
confidence intervals (for estimates of parameters; functions of parameters,
such as differences in means; and effect sizes) when reporting results.
Because confidence intervals combine information on location and precision
and can be directly used to infer significance levels, they are generally the
best reporting strategy. As a rule, it is best to use a single confidence level,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 156 ---

specified on an a priori basis (e.g., a 95% or 99% confidence interval),
throughout the article. Wherever possible, base discussion and interpretation
of results on point and interval estimates.
When using complex data-analytic techniques—such as structural equation
modeling, Bayesian techniques, hierarchical linear modeling, factor analysis,
multivariate analysis, and similar approaches—provide details of the models
estimated (see Section 3.11). Also provide (usually in supplemental
materials) the associated variance–covariance (or correlation) matrices.
Identify the software used to run the analysis (e.g., SAS PROC GLM or a
particular R package) and any parametric settings used in running the
analyses (references are not necessary for these software programs). Report
any estimation problems (e.g., failure to converge), regression diagnosis
issues, or analytic anomalies. Report any problems with statistical
assumptions or data issues that might affect the validity of the findings.
Effect Sizes. For readers to appreciate the magnitude or importance of a
study’s findings, it is recommended to include some measure of effect size in
the Results section. Effect sizes are statistical estimates; therefore, whenever
possible, provide a confidence interval for each effect size reported to
indicate the precision of estimation of the effect size. Effect sizes may be
expressed in the original units (e.g., mean number of questions answered
correctly, kilograms per month for a regression slope) and are most easily
understood when reported as such. It is valuable to also report an effect size
in some standardized or units-free or scale-free unit (e.g., Cohen’s d value) or
a standardized regression weight. Multiple degree-of-freedom effect-size
indicators are less useful than effect-size indicators that decompose multiple
degree-of-freedom tests into meaningful one degree-of-freedom effects,
particularly when the latter are the results that inform the discussion. The
general principle to follow is to provide readers with enough information to
assess the magnitude of the observed effect.
Studies With Experimental Manipulations or Interventions. In studies
reporting the results of experimental manipulations or interventions, clarify
whether the analysis was by intent to treat. That is, were all participants
assigned to conditions included in the data analysis regardless of whether
they actually received the intervention, or were only participants who
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 157 ---

completed the intervention satisfactorily included? Give a rationale for the
choice.
Ancillary Analyses. Report any other analyses performed, including
subgroup analyses and adjusted analyses, indicating those that were
prespecified and those that were exploratory (although not necessarily in the
level of detail of primary analyses). Consider putting the detailed results of
ancillary analyses in supplemental materials. Discuss the implications, if any,
of the ancillary analyses for statistical error rates.
Baseline Data. Be sure to provide baseline demographic and/or clinical
characteristics of each group.
Adverse Events. If interventions were studied, detail all important adverse
events (i.e., events with serious consequences) and/or side effects in each
intervention group. If none occurred, note this as well.
3.8 Quantitative Discussion Standards
After presenting the results, you are in a position to evaluate and interpret
their implications, especially with respect to your original hypotheses. In the
Discussion section of a quantitative paper, examine, interpret, and qualify the
results of your research and draw inferences and conclusions from them. In
the case of empirical studies, there should be a tight relationship between the
results that are reported and their discussion. Emphasize any theoretical or
practical consequences of the results. When the discussion is relatively brief
and straightforward, you can combine it with the Results section, creating a
section called “Results and Discussion.” If a manuscript presents multiple
studies, discuss the findings in the order that the studies were presented
within the article.
Open the Discussion section with a clear statement of support or
nonsupport for all hypotheses, distinguished by primary and secondary
hypotheses. In the case of ambiguous outcomes, explain why the results are
judged as such. Discuss the implications of exploratory analyses in terms of
both substantive findings and error rates that may be uncontrolled.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 158 ---

Similarities and differences between your results and the work of others
(where they exist) should be used to contextualize, confirm, and clarify your
conclusions. Do not simply reformulate and repeat points already made; each
new statement should contribute to your interpretation and to readers’
understanding of the problem.
Limitations and Strengths. Your interpretation of the results should take
into account (a) sources of potential bias and other threats to internal validity,
(b) the imprecision of measures, (c) the overall number of tests and/or
overlap among tests, (d) the adequacy of sample sizes and sampling validity,
and (e) other limitations or weaknesses of the study. If an intervention or
manipulation is involved, discuss whether it was successfully implemented,
and note the mechanism by which it was intended to work (i.e., its causal
pathways and/or alternative mechanisms). Discuss the fidelity with which the
intervention or manipulation was implemented, and describe the barriers that
were responsible for any lack of fidelity. Acknowledge the limitations of
your research, and address alternative explanations of the results. Discuss the
generalizability, or external validity, of the findings. This critical analysis
should take into account differences between the target population and the
accessed sample. For interventions, discuss characteristics that make them
more or less applicable to circumstances not included in the study, what
outcomes were measured and how (relative to other measures that might have
been used), the length of time to measurement (between the end of the
intervention and the measurement of outcomes), incentives, compliance rates,
and specific settings involved in the study as well as other contextual issues.
Study Implications. End the Discussion section with a reasoned and
justifiable commentary on the importance of your findings. This concluding
section may be brief, or it may be extensive if it is tightly reasoned, self-
contained, and not overstated. In the conclusion, consider returning to a
discussion of why the problem is important (as stated in the introduction);
what larger issues, meaning those that transcend the particulars of the
subfield, might hinge on the findings; and what propositions are confirmed or
disconfirmed by the extrapolation of these findings to such overarching
issues.
Also consider the following issues:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 159 ---

What is the theoretical, clinical, or practical significance of the outcomes,
and what is the basis for these interpretations?
If the findings are valid and replicable, what real-life psychological
phenomena might be explained or modeled by the results?
Are applications warranted on the basis of this research?
What problems remain unresolved or arise anew because of these
findings?
The responses to these questions are the core of the contribution of your
study and justify why readers both inside and outside your specialty should
attend to the findings. Readers should receive clear, unambiguous, and direct
answers.
3.9 Additional Reporting Standards for Typical Experimental and
Nonexperimental Studies
As mentioned in Section 3.5, the reporting standards in Table 3.1 apply to all
quantitative studies. Additional standards apply because of particular design
features or empirical claims made. Studies with experimental (e.g., studies
using random assignment, studies using nonrandom assignment, clinical
trials) and nonexperimental designs have these additional specific reporting
standards. See Figure 3.1 for a flowchart of what standards to use for your
research and links to the associated standards on the JARS website.
Studies Using Random Assignment. Describe the unit of randomization and
the procedures used to generate assignments. Be careful to note when units
such as classrooms are the unit of randomization, even though data collection
may be from individual students within the classroom. Indicate the unit of
randomization in the analysis of such study outcomes as well. Describe
masking provisions used to ensure the quality of the randomization process.
Studies Using Nonrandom Assignment. Describe the unit of assignment
and the method (rules) used to assign the unit to the condition, including
details of any assignment restrictions such as blocking, stratification, and so
forth. Describe any procedures used to minimize selection bias such as
matching or propensity score matching.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 160 ---

Clinical Trials. Within the JARS context, a clinical trial or a randomized
clinical trial is a research investigation that evaluates the effects of one or
more health-related interventions (e.g., psychotherapy, medication) on health
outcomes by prospectively assigning people to experimental conditions. As
used here, a clinical trial is a subset of a class of studies called “randomized
control studies,” and the reporting standards for clinical trials apply to
randomized control studies as well. Most clinical trials are experimental
studies with random assignment, so all reporting standards for those types of
studies also apply. Report information about the clinical trial aspect of the
study. If the trial has been registered (e.g., on ClinicalTrials.gov), report its
registration on the title page in the author note (see Section 2.7) and in the
text. In the Method section, provide details of any site-specific considerations
if the trial is a multisite trial. Provide access to the study protocol; if the study
is a comparison to a current “standard” treatment, describe that standard
treatment in sufficient detail that it can be accurately replicated in any follow-
up or replication study. Describe the data safety and monitoring board and
any stopping rules if used. If there was a follow-up, provide the rationale for
the length of the follow-up period.
Nonexperimental Designs. Nonexperimental studies (in which no variable is
manipulated) are sometimes called, among other things, “observational,”
“correlational,” or “natural history” studies. Their purpose is to observe,
describe, classify, or analyze naturally occurring relationships between
variables of interest. In general, describe the design of the study, methods of
participant selection and sampling (e.g., prospective, retrospective, case-
control, cohort, cohort-sequential), and data sources. Define all variables and
describe the comparability of assessment across natural groups. Indicate how
predictors, confounders, and effect modifiers were included in the analysis.
Discuss the potential limitations of the study as relevant (e.g., the possibility
of unmeasured confounding).
3.10 Reporting Standards for Special Designs
Studies with some special designs (e.g., longitudinal, N-of-1, replication)
have specific reporting standards. See Figure 3.1 for a flowchart of what
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 161 ---

standards to use for your research, including studies with special designs, and
links to the associated standards on the JARS website.
Longitudinal Studies. A longitudinal study involves the observation of the
same individuals using the same set of measurements (or attributes) at
multiple times or occasions. This multiple observational structure may be
combined with other research designs, including those with and without
experimental manipulations, randomized clinical trials, or any other study
type. Reporting standards for longitudinal studies must combine those for the
basic underlying study structure with those specific to a longitudinal study.
Thus, in addition to the information dictated by the underlying structure of
the study, report information about the longitudinal aspects of the study. For
example, describe sample recruitment and retention methods, including
attrition at each wave of data collection and how any missing data were
handled. Describe any contextual changes that occurred during the progress
of the study (e.g., a major economic recession). Report any changes in
instrumentation that occurred over the course of the study, such as a change
in level of a measure of school achievement. Because longitudinal studies are
often reported in a segmental fashion, report where any portions of the data
have been previously published and the degree of overlap with the current
report (see Section 1.16).
N-of-1 Studies. Studies with N-of-1 designs occur in several different forms;
however, the essential feature of all these designs is that the unit of study is a
single entity (usually a person). In some N-of-1 studies, several individual
results are described, and consistency of results may be a central point of the
discussion. No N-of-1 study, however, combines the results from several
cases (e.g., by computing averages).
Describe the design type (e.g., withdrawal–reversal, multiple baseline,
alternating–simultaneous treatments, changing criterion) and its phases and
phase sequence when one or more manipulations have been used. Indicate
whether and how randomization was used. For each participant, report the
sequence actually completed and the participant’s results, including raw data
for target behaviors and other outcomes.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 162 ---

Replication Articles. For a replication article (see Section 1.4), indicate the
type of replication (e.g., direct [exact, literal], approximate, conceptual
[construct]). Provide comparisons between the original study and the
replication being reported so readers can evaluate the degree to which there
may be factors present that would contribute to any differences between the
findings of the original study and the findings of the replication being
reported. Compare recruitment procedures; demographic characteristics of
participants; and instrumentation, including hardware and “soft” measures
(e.g., questionnaires, interviews, psychological tests), modifications made to
measures (e.g., translation or back-translation), psychometric characteristics
of scores analyzed, and informants and methods of administration (e.g.,
paper-and-pencil vs. online). Report results of the same analytic methods
(statistical or other quantitative manipulations) used in the original study, as
well as any results from additional or different analyses. Report in detail the
rules (e.g., comparison of effect sizes) that were used in deciding the degree
to which the original results were replicated in the new study being reported.
3.11 Standards for Analytic Approaches
Although reporting standards are generally associated with entire research
designs, some quantitative procedures (e.g., structural equation modeling,
Bayesian techniques) are of sufficient complexity and open to such internal
variation that additional information (beyond just the name of the technique
and a few parameters) must be reported for readers to be able to fully
comprehend the analysis. Other researchers may need additional information
to evaluate the conclusions the authors have drawn or to replicate the analysis
with their own data. Standards for structural equation modeling and Bayesian
techniques are on the JARS website
(https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/quantitative).
Structural Equation Modeling. Structural equation modeling is a family of
statistical techniques that involve the specification of a structural or
measurement model. The analysis involves steps that estimate the effects
represented in the model (parameters) and evaluate the extent of
correspondence between the model and the data. These standards are
complex and call for a comprehensive description of data preparation,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 163 ---

specification of the initial model(s), estimation, model fit assessment,
respecification of the model(s), and reporting of results.
Bayesian Techniques. Bayesian techniques are inferential statistical
procedures in which researchers estimate parameters of an underlying
distribution on the basis of the observed distribution. These standards are
complex and address the needs of this analytic approach, including how to
specify the model, describe and plot the distributions, describe the
computation of the model, report any Bayes factors, and report Bayesian
model averaging.
3.12 Quantitative Meta-Analysis Standards
Quantitative meta-analyses (see Section 1.5) have specific reporting
standards that are available in full on the JARS website
(https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/quant-table-9.pdf). These standards are specific
to meta-analyses but can easily generalize to other quantitative research
synthesis approaches. One feature of meta-analyses that makes them different
(in reporting demands) from other study types is that the units of analysis are
research reports—usually articles that have been published or archived. The
primary features of the included studies are numerical estimates of the effect
sizes of the phenomena of interest. The reporting standards for quantitative
meta-analyses are complex and include how to describe study selection, study
inclusion and exclusion criteria, and data collection, as well as how to
summarize the selected studies and their characteristics (e.g., through tables
and figures; see Table 7.4 in Section 7.21 for a sample summary meta-
analysis table).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 164 ---

Reporting Standards for Qualitative Research
3.13 Basic Expectations for Qualitative Research Reporting
Whereas standards for reporting information in the abstract and introduction
of a paper are common to all kinds of research (see Sections 3.3–3.4), there
are specific reporting standards for qualitative research articles, including the
Method (Section 3.14), Findings or Results (Section 3.15), and Discussion
(Section 3.16) sections. Standards specific to quantitative and mixed methods
research are presented in Sections 3.5 to 3.12 and 3.18, respectively.
The basic expectations for reporting qualitative research are presented in
Table 3.2. An additional table on the JARS website describes the reporting
standards for qualitative meta-analyses (see Section 3.17). There are many
qualitative procedures and methods as well as many designs and approaches
to inquiry in which they can be embedded; because of this variation, all the
elements described in Table 3.2 and the guidelines in Sections 3.14 to 3.16
may not be appropriate for all qualitative studies.
Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Qual)
Title Page
Title
Identify key issues/topic under consideration.
Author Note
Acknowledge funding sources or contributors.
Acknowledge conflicts of interest, if any.
Abstract
State the problem/question/objectives under investigation.
Indicate the study design, including types of participants or data sources, analytic strategy, main
results/findings, and main implications/significance.
Identify five keywords.
Guidance for Authors
Consider including at least one keyword that describes the method and one that describes the
types of participants or phenomena under investigation.
Consider describing your approach to inquiry when it will facilitate the review process and
intelligibility of your paper. If your work is not grounded in a specific approach to inquiry or your
approach would be too complicated to explain in the allotted word count, however, it would not be
advisable to provide explication on this point in the abstract.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 165 ---

Introduction
Description of Research Problem or Question
Frame the problem or question and its context.
Review, critique, and synthesize the applicable literature to identify key issues/debates/theoretical
frameworks in the relevant literature to clarify barriers, knowledge gaps, or practical needs.
Guidance for Reviewers
The introduction may include case examples, personal narratives, vignettes, or other illustrative
material.
Study Objectives/Aims/Research Goals
State the purpose(s)/goal(s)/aim(s) of the study.
State the target audience, if specific.
Provide the rationale for fit of design used to investigate this purpose/goal (e.g., theory building,
explanatory, developing understanding, social action, description, highlighting social practices).
Describe the approach to inquiry, if it illuminates the objectives and research rationale (e.g.,
descriptive, interpretive, feminist, psychoanalytic, postpositivist, critical, postmodern, constructivist, or
pragmatic approaches).
Guidance for Authors
If relevant to objectives, explain the relation of the current analysis to prior articles/publications.
Guidance for Reviewers
Qualitative studies often legitimately need to be divided into multiple manuscripts because of
journal article page limitations, but each manuscript should have a separate focus.
Qualitative studies tend not to identify hypotheses, but rather research questions and goals.
Method
Research Design Overview
Summarize the research design, including data-collection strategies, data-analytic strategies, and, if
illuminating, approaches to inquiry (e.g., descriptive, interpretive, feminist, psychoanalytic,
postpositivist, critical, postmodern, constructivist, or pragmatic approaches).
Provide the rationale for the design selected.
Guidance for Reviewers
Method sections can be written in a chronological or narrative format.
Although authors provide a method description that other investigators should be able to follow, it is
not required that other investigators arrive at the same conclusions but rather that the method
description leads other investigators to conclusions with a similar degree of methodological
integrity.
At times, elements may be relevant to multiple sections and authors need to organize what belongs
in each subsection in order to describe the method coherently and reduce redundancy. For
instance, the overview and the objectives statement may be presented in one section.
Processes of qualitative research are often iterative versus linear, may evolve through the inquiry
process, and may move between data collection and analysis in multiple formats. As a result, data
collection and analysis sections might be combined.
For the reasons stated previously and because qualitative methods often are adapted and
combined creatively, requiring detailed description and rationale, an average qualitative Method
section typically is longer than an average quantitative Method section.
Study Participants or Data Sources
RESEARCHER DESCRIPTION
Describe the researchers’ backgrounds in approaching the study, emphasizing their prior
understandings of the phenomena under study (e.g., interviewers, analysts, or research team).
Describe how prior understandings of the phenomena under study were managed and/or influenced
the research (e.g., enhancing, limiting, or structuring data collection and analysis).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 166 ---

Guidance for Authors
Prior understandings relevant to the analysis could include, but are not limited to, descriptions of
researchers’ demographic/cultural characteristics, credentials, experience with phenomena,
training, values, and/or decisions in selecting archives or material to analyze.
Guidance for Reviewers
Researchers differ in the extensiveness of reflexive self-description in reports. It may not be
possible for authors to estimate the depth of description desired by reviewers without guidance.
PARTICIPANTS OR OTHER DATA SOURCES
Provide the numbers of participants/documents/events analyzed.
Describe the demographics/cultural information, perspectives of participants, or characteristics of data
sources that might influence the data collected.
Describe existing data sources, if relevant (e.g., newspapers, internet, archive).
Provide data repository information for openly shared data, if applicable.
Describe archival searches or process of locating data for analyses, if applicable.
RESEARCHER–PARTICIPANT RELATIONSHIP
Describe the relationships and interactions between researchers and participants relevant to the
research process and any impact on the research process (e.g., was there a relationship prior to
research, are there any ethical considerations relevant to prior relationships).
Participant Recruitment
RECRUITMENT PROCESS
Describe the recruitment process (e.g., face-to-face, telephone, mail, email) and any recruitment
protocols.
Describe any incentives or compensation, and provide assurance of relevant ethical processes of data
collection and consent process as relevant (may include institutional review board approval, particular
adaptations for vulnerable populations, safety monitoring).
Describe the process by which the number of participants was determined in relation to the study
design.
Provide any changes in numbers through attrition and final number of participants/sources (if relevant,
refusal rates or reasons for dropout).
Describe the rationale for decision to halt data collection (e.g., saturation).
Convey the study purpose as portrayed to participants, if different from the purpose stated.
Guidance for Authors/Reviewers
The order of the recruitment process and the selection process and their contents may be
determined in relation to the authors’ methodological approach. Some authors will determine a
selection process and then develop a recruitment method based on those criteria. Other authors
will develop a recruitment process and then select participants responsively in relation to evolving
findings.
Guidance for Reviewers
There is no agreed-upon minimum number of participants for a qualitative study. Rather, the author
should provide a rationale for the number of participants chosen.
PARTICIPANT SELECTION
Describe the participant/data source selection process (e.g., purposive sampling methods, such as
maximum variation; convenience sampling methods, such as snowball selection; theoretical sampling;
diversity sampling) and inclusion/exclusion criteria.
Provide the general context for the study (when data were collected, sites of data collection).
If your participant selection is from an archived data set, describe the recruitment and selection
process from that data set as well as any decisions in selecting sets of participants from that data set.
Guidance for Authors
A statement can clarify how the number of participants fits with practices in the design at hand,
recognizing that transferability of findings in qualitative research to other contexts is based in
developing deep and contextualized understandings that can be applied by readers rather than
quantitative estimates of error and generalizations to populations.
Guidance for Authors/Reviewers
The order of the recruitment process and the selection process and their contents may be
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 167 ---

determined in relation to the authors’ methodological approach. Some authors will determine a
selection process and then develop a recruitment method based on those criteria. Other authors
will develop a recruitment process and then select participants responsively in relation to evolving
findings.
Data Collection
DATA–COLLECTION OR IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES
State the form of data collected (e.g., interviews, questionnaires, media, observation).
Describe the origins or evolution of the data-collection protocol.
Describe any alterations of data-collection strategy in response to the evolving findings or the study
rationale.
Describe the data-selection or data-collection process (e.g., were others present when data were
collected, number of times data were collected, duration of collection, context).
Convey the extensiveness of engagement (e.g., depth of engagement, time intensiveness of data
collection).
For interview and written studies, indicate the mean and range of the time duration in the data-
collection process (e.g., interviews were held for 75 to 110 min, with an average interview time of 90
min).
Describe the management or use of reflexivity in the data-collection process, as it illuminates the
study.
Describe questions asked in data collection: content of central questions, form of questions (e.g.,
open vs. closed).
Guidance for Reviewers
Researchers may use terms for data collection that are coherent within their research approach
and process, such as “data identification,” “data collection,” or “data selection.” Descriptions should
be provided, however, in accessible terms in relation to the readership.
It may not be useful for researchers to reproduce all of the questions they asked in an interview,
especially in the case of unstructured or semistructured interviews as questions are adapted to the
content of each interview.
RECORDING AND DATA TRANSFORMATION
Identify data audio/visual recording methods, field notes, or transcription processes used.
Analysis
DATA–ANALYTIC STRATEGIES
Describe the methods and procedures used and for what purpose/goal.
Explicate in detail the process of analysis, including some discussion of the procedures (e.g., coding,
thematic analysis) following a principle of transparency.
Describe coders or analysts and their training, if not already described in the researcher description
section (e.g., coder selection, collaboration groups).
Identify whether coding categories emerged from the analyses or were developed a priori.
Identify units of analysis (e.g., entire transcript, unit, text) and how units were formed, if applicable.
Describe the process of arriving at an analytic scheme, if applicable (e.g., if one was developed before
or during the analysis or was emergent throughout).
Provide illustrations and descriptions of the analytic scheme development, if relevant.
Indicate software, if used.
Guidance for Authors
Provide rationales to illuminate analytic choices in relation to the study goals.
Guidance for Reviewers
Researchers may use terms for data analysis that are coherent within their research approach and
process (e.g., “interpretation,” “unitization,” “eidetic analysis,” “coding”). Descriptions should be
provided, however, in accessible terms in relation to the readership.
METHODOLOGICAL INTEGRITY
Demonstrate that the claims made from the analysis are warranted and have produced findings with
methodological integrity. The procedures that support methodological integrity (i.e., fidelity and utility)
typically are described across the relevant sections of a paper, but they could be addressed in a
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 168 ---

separate section when elaboration or emphasis would be helpful. Issues of methodological integrity
include the following:
Assess the adequacy of the data in terms of the ability to capture forms of diversity most relevant
to the question, research goals, and inquiry approach.
Describe how the researchers’ perspectives were managed in both the data collection and analysis
(e.g., to limit their effect on the data collection, to structure the analysis).
Demonstrate that findings are grounded in the evidence (e.g., using quotes, excerpts, or
descriptions of researchers’ engagement in data collection).
Demonstrate that the contributions are insightful and meaningful (e.g., in relation to the current
literature and the study goal).
Provide relevant contextual information for findings (e.g., setting of study, information about
participants, interview question asked is presented before excerpt as needed).
Present findings in a coherent manner that makes sense of contradictions or disconfirming
evidence in the data (e.g., reconcile discrepancies, describe why a conflict might exist in the
findings).
Demonstrate consistency with regard to the analytic processes (e.g., analysts may use
demonstrations of analyses to support consistency, describe their development of a stable
perspective, interrater reliability, consensus) or describe responses to inconsistencies, as relevant
(e.g., coders switching midway through analysis, an interruption in the analytic process). If alterations
in methodological integrity were made for ethical reasons, explicate those reasons and the
adjustments made.
Describe how support for claims was supplemented by any checks added to the qualitative analysis.
Examples of supplemental checks that can strengthen the research may include
transcripts/data collected returned to participants for feedback
triangulation across multiple sources of information, findings, or investigators
checks on the interview thoroughness or interviewer demands
consensus or auditing process
member checks or participant feedback on findings
data displays/matrices
in-depth thick description, case examples, or illustrations
structured methods of researcher reflexivity (e.g., sending memos, field notes, diary, logbooks,
journals, bracketing)
checks on the utility of findings in responding to the study problem (e.g., an evaluation of whether a
solution worked)
Guidance for Reviewers
Research does not need to use all or any of the checks (as rigor is centrally based in the iterative
process of qualitative analyses, which inherently includes checks within the evolving, self-
correcting iterative analyses), but their use can augment a study’s methodological integrity.
Approaches to inquiry have different traditions in terms of using checks and which checks are most
valued.
Describe research findings (e.g., themes, categories, narratives) and the meaning and understandings
that the researcher has derived from the data analysis.
Demonstrate the analytic process of reaching findings (e.g., quotes, excerpts of data).
Findings/Results
Findings/Results Subsections
Present research findings in a way that is compatible with the study design.
Present synthesizing illustrations (e.g., diagrams, tables, models), if useful in organizing and
conveying findings. Photographs or links to videos can be used.
Guidance for Authors
Findings presented in an artistic manner (e.g., a link to a dramatic presentation of findings) should
also include information in the reporting standards to support the research presentation.
Use quotes or excerpts to augment data description (e.g., thick, evocative description, field notes,
text excerpts), but these should not replace the description of the findings of the analysis.
Guidance for Reviewers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 169 ---

The Findings section tends to be longer than in quantitative papers because of the demonstrative
rhetoric needed to permit the evaluation of the analytic procedure.
Depending on the approach to inquiry, findings and discussion may be combined or a personalized
discursive style might be used to portray the researchers’ involvement in the analysis.
Findings may or may not include quantified information, depending upon the study’s goals,
approach to inquiry, and study characteristics.
Discussion
Discussion Subsections
Describe the central contributions and their significance in advancing disciplinary understandings.
Describe the types of contributions made by findings (e.g., challenging, elaborating on, and
supporting prior research or theory in the literature describing the relevance) and how findings can be
best utilized.
Identify similarities and differences from prior theories and research findings.
Reflect on any alternative explanations of the findings.
Identify the study’s strengths and limitations (e.g., consider how the quality, source, or types of the
data or the analytic processes might support or weaken its methodological integrity).
Describe the limits of the scope of transferability (e.g., what readers should bear in mind when using
findings across contexts).
Revisit any ethical dilemmas or challenges that were encountered, and provide related suggestions
for future researchers.
Consider the implications for future research, policy, or practice.
Guidance for Reviewers
Accounts could lead to multiple solutions rather than a single one. Many qualitative approaches
hold that there may be more than one valid and useful set of findings from a given data set.
Authors must decide how sections should be organized within the context
of their specific study. For example, qualitative researchers may combine the
Results and Discussion sections because they may not find it possible to
separate a given finding from its interpreted meaning within a broader
context. Qualitative researchers may also use headings that reflect the values
in their tradition (such as “Findings” instead of “Results”) and omit ones that
do not. As long as the necessary information is present, the paper does not
need to be segmented into the same sections and subsections as a quantitative
paper.
Qualitative papers may appear different from quantitative papers because
they tend to be longer. This added length is due to the following central
features of qualitative reporting: (a) In place of referencing statistical
analyses, researchers must include detailed rationales and procedural
descriptions to explain how an analytic method was selected, applied, and
adapted to fit each specific question or context; (b) researchers must include a
discussion of their own backgrounds and beliefs and how they managed them
throughout the study; and (c) researchers must show how they moved from
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 170 ---

their raw data to develop findings by adding quoted materials or other
demonstrative evidence into their presentation of results. Because qualitative
articles need to be lengthier to provide the information necessary to support
an adequate review, limitations on length should be more flexible than they
are for quantitative articles, which may not need to include this information.
When journal page limits conflict with the length of a qualitative paper,
qualitative researchers should work with journal editors to reach a solution
that enables an adequate review of the paper in question.
3.14 Qualitative Method Standards
The Method section of a qualitative article includes the following types of
information (see also Table 3.2).
Research Design Overview. The Method section of a qualitative article
begins with a paragraph that summarizes the research design. It might
mention the data-collection strategies, data-analytic strategies, and
approaches to inquiry and provide a brief rationale for the design selected if
this was not described in the objectives section of the introduction (see
Section 3.4).
Researcher Description. To situate the investigation within the expectations,
identities, and positions of the researchers (e.g., interviewers, analysts,
research team), describe the researchers’ backgrounds in approaching the
study, emphasizing their prior understandings of the phenomena under study.
Descriptions of researchers relevant to the analysis could include (but are not
limited to) their demographic, cultural, and/or identity characteristics;
credentials; experience with the phenomena under study; training; values; or
decisions in selecting archives or material to analyze. Describe how prior
understandings of the phenomena under study were managed and/or how
they influenced the research (e.g., by enhancing, limiting, or structuring data
collection and analysis).
Participants or Other Data Sources. When describing participants or data
sources, the following information should be reported: number of
participants, documents, or events that were analyzed; demographic or
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 171 ---

cultural information relevant to the research topic; and perspectives of
participants and characteristics of data sources relevant to the research topic.
As applicable, data sources should be described (e.g., newspapers, internet,
archive). Information about data repositories used for openly shared data
should be reported if used. The processes entailed in performing archival
searches or locating data for analysis should be described as well.
Qualitative researchers should report participant characteristics (listed in
Section 3.6) and personal history factors (e.g., age, trauma exposure, abuse
history, substance abuse history, family history, geographic history) that are
relevant to the specific contexts and topics of their research (see Morse,
2008). Certain characteristics hold influence across many spheres of
participants’ lives within a given context and would be expected in most
research reports; in the United States, these typically include age, gender,
race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status, but other features may be highly
relevant as well to a given research question and context (e.g., sexual
orientation, immigration status, disability). The descriptions of participant
characteristics should be sensitive to the participants and the ways in which
they understand and express their identities, statuses, histories, and so forth.
Chapter 5 contains further guidance on writing about participant
characteristics without bias.
In addition to participant characteristics and personal history factors, other
features within a study may influence the experience of a given phenomenon
(e.g., psychotherapy orientation in research on psychotherapists, political
party membership in a study on economic beliefs) and therefore are important
to report. The decision of which participant characteristics and features to
report can be driven by a review of prior research, the researchers’ experience
with a phenomenon, pilot interviews, study goals, contextual dynamics, and
empirical data that are analyzed as the data collection proceeds. In this way,
reporting considerations may be experientially, theoretically, and empirically
driven.
Researcher–Participant Relationships. To increase transparency, describe
the relationships and interactions between researchers and participants that
are relevant to the research process and any impact on the research process
(e.g., any relationships prior to the study, any ethical considerations relevant
to prior relationships). Existing relationships may be helpful (e.g., by
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 172 ---

increasing trust and facilitating disclosure) or harmful (e.g., by decreasing
trust and inhibiting disclosure), so the specific dynamics of the relationships
should be considered and reported.
Participant Recruitment. There is no minimum number of participants for a
qualitative study (see Levitt et al., 2017, for a discussion on adequacy of data
in qualitative research). Authors should provide a rationale for the number of
participants chosen, often in light of the method or approach to inquiry that is
used. Some studies begin with researchers recruiting participants to the study
and then selecting participants from the pool that responds. Other studies
begin with researchers selecting a type of participant pool and then recruiting
from within that pool. The content of Method sections should be ordered to
reflect the study’s process. Specifically, participant selection might follow
participant recruitment or vice versa; thus, discussion of the number of
participants is likely to be placed in reference to whichever process came
second.
Recruitment Process. Report the method of recruitment (e.g., face-to-face,
telephone, mail, email) and any recruitment protocols, and describe how you
conveyed the study purpose to participants, especially if it was different from
the purpose stated in the study objectives (see Section 3.4). For instance,
researchers might describe a broader study aim to participants (e.g., to
explore participants’ experience of being on parole) but then focus their
analysis in a specific manuscript on one aspect of that aim (e.g., the
relationships between participants and parole officers). Provide details on any
incentives or compensation given to participants, and state relevant ethical
processes of data collection and consent, potentially describing institutional
review board approval, any adaptations for vulnerable populations, or safety
monitoring practices. Present the process for determining the number of
participants in relation to the study design (e.g., approaches to inquiry, data-
collection strategies, data-analytic strategies). Any changes in this number
through attrition (e.g., refusal rates, reasons for dropout) and the final number
of participants or sources should be conveyed, as should the rationale for
decisions to halt data collection (e.g., saturation).
Participant Selection. To describe how participants were selected from within
an identified group, explain any inclusion and/or exclusion criteria as well as
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 173 ---

the participant and/or data source selection process that was used. This
selection process can consist of purposive sampling methods, such as
maximum variation; convenience sampling methods, such as snowball
selection; theoretical sampling; or diversity sampling. Provide the general
context for your study (e.g., when data were collected, sites of data
collection). If you selected participants from an archived data set, describe
the recruitment and selection process for that data set and any decisions
affecting the selection of participants from that data set.
Data Collection. Researchers may use terms for data collection that are
coherent with their research approach and process, such as “data
identification,” “collection,” or “selection.” Descriptions should be provided,
however, in terms that are accessible to readers.
Data-Collection or Identification Procedures. In addition to describing the
form of data collected (e.g., interviews, questionnaires, media, observation),
convey any alterations to the data-collection strategy (e.g., in response to
evolving findings or the study rationale). It may not be useful to reproduce all
of the questions asked in an interview, especially in the case of unstructured
or semi-structured interviews in which questions are adapted to the content of
each interview. The content of central or guiding questions should be
communicated, however, and the format of the questions can be described
(e.g., open questions, nonleading paraphrases, written prompts). Describe the
process of data selection or data collection (e.g., whether others were present
when data were collected, number of times data were collected, duration of
collection, context). Convey the extensiveness of the researchers’
engagement (e.g., depth of engagement, time intensiveness of data
collection). Describe the management or use of reflexivity in the data-
collection process when it illuminates the study.
Recording and Data Transformation. Identify how data were recorded for
analysis and explain whether and how data were transformed. This might
include a statement regarding audio or visual recording methods, field notes,
or transcription.
Analysis. The two primary topics to report in the description of qualitative
analyses are the data analysis and the establishment of methodological
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 174 ---

integrity. Researchers may use terms for data analysis that are coherent
within their research approach and process (e.g., “interpretation,”
“unitization,” “eidetic analysis,” “coding”). Descriptions should be provided,
however, in terms that are accessible to readers.
Data-Analytic Strategies. Describe the methods and procedures of data
analysis and the purpose or goal for which they were used. Explain in detail
the process of analysis. Describe the process of arriving at an analytic
approach (e.g., whether a set of categories of coding was developed before or
during the analysis, whether findings emerged from an inductively driven
process of analysis; see the glossary on the JARS website at
https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/glossary). Also include a discussion of analytic
procedures (e.g., coding, thematic analysis) and a description of coders or
analysts and their training if not already described in the researcher
description section. In this description, identify units of analysis (e.g., entire
transcript, unit, text) and how units were formed, if applicable. Indicate
whether any categories or codes emerged from the analyses or were
developed a priori, and outline the process used in each case. Provide
illustrations and descriptions of their development, if relevant. Indicate
software, if used.
Methodological Integrity. Highlight procedures that support methodological
integrity throughout the paper or summarize central points in a separate
section of the Method section when elaboration or emphasis would be helpful
(for more on methodological integrity, see Levitt et al., 2017, and the
glossary on the JARS website at https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/glossary).
Demonstrate that the claims made from the analysis are warranted. Highlight
key features of methodological integrity, as follows:
adequacy: Assess the adequacy of the data in terms of their ability to
capture forms of diversity most relevant to the research questions,
research goals, and inquiry approach.
researchers’ perspectives: Describe how the researchers’ perspectives
were managed in both the data collection and the analysis (e.g., to limit
their effect on the data collection, to structure the analysis).
groundedness: Demonstrate that findings are grounded in the evidence
(e.g., using quotes, excerpts, or descriptions of researchers’ engagement in
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 175 ---

data collection).
meaningfulness: Demonstrate that the contributions are insightful and
meaningful (e.g., in relation to the current literature and the study goals).
context: Provide relevant contextual information for findings (e.g., setting
of the study, information about participants; present the interview
question asked before an excerpt as needed).
coherence: Present findings in a coherent manner that makes sense of
contradictions or disconfirming evidence in the data (e.g., reconcile
discrepancies, describe why a conflict might exist in the findings).
consistency: As relevant, comment on consistency with regard to the
analytic processes, especially in the face of changing conditions or
contexts (e.g., use demonstrations of analyses to support consistency or to
describe the development of a stable perspective, such as through the use
of interrater reliability or consensus), or describe responses to
inconsistencies (e.g., coders switching in the middle of analysis, an
interruption in the analytic process).
Support for claims of methodological integrity may be supplemented by any
checks added to the qualitative analysis. Approaches to inquiry have different
traditions in terms of using checks, and researchers do not need to use all or
any of the checks, but their use can augment a study’s methodological
integrity. The following are examples of supplemental checks that can
strengthen the research:
transcripts or data returned to participants for feedback;
triangulation across multiple sources of information, findings, or
investigators;
checks on interview thoroughness or interviewer demands;
consensus or auditing processes;
member checks or participant feedback on findings;
data displays or matrices;
in-depth thick description, case examples, and illustrations;
structured methods of researcher reflexivity (e.g., memos, field notes,
logbooks, diaries, journals, bracketing); and
checks on the utility of findings in responding to the study problem (e.g.,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 176 ---

evaluation of whether a solution worked).
3.15 Qualitative Findings or Results Standards
In qualitative research papers, findings may or may not include quantified
information, depending on the study’s goals, approach to inquiry, and study
characteristics. Note that the heading “Findings” may be used rather than
“Results.”
Descriptions of Both the Development of Findings and the Findings
Themselves. Describe research findings (e.g., themes, categories, narratives)
and the meaning and understandings that the researchers derived from the
data analysis in relation to the purpose of the study. Descriptions of results
often include quotes, evidence, or excerpts that demonstrate the process of
data analysis and of reaching findings (e.g., thick, evocative description; field
notes; text excerpts). These should not replace the description of the findings
of the analysis, however. Instead, balance these illustrations with text
descriptions that make clear the meanings drawn from individual quotes or
excerpts and how they answer the study question.
Compatibility With Study Design. Findings should be presented in a
manner that is compatible with the study design. For instance, findings of a
grounded theory study might be described using categories organized in a
hierarchical form and marked by discrete divisions, whereas findings of an
ethnographic study might be written in a chronological narrative format.
Also, findings should be written in a style that is coherent with the approach
to inquiry used.
Depictions of Findings. Qualitative findings can be presented in various
ways. Illustrations (e.g., diagrams, tables, models; see Chapter 7) may be
used to organize and convey findings. Photographs or links to videos can be
used as well (see Sections 2.15 and 7.30). Findings presented in an artistic
manner (e.g., link to a dramatic presentation), however, should also include
the information called for in the reporting standards to support the research
presentation and a description that clarifies the analytic process and meanings
drawn from the findings.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 177 ---

3.16 Qualitative Discussion Standards
The purpose of a qualitative Discussion section is to communicate the
contributions of the study in relation to the prior literature and the study
goals. In this process, the interpretations of the findings are described in a
way that takes into account the limitations of the study as well as plausible
alternative explanations. The Discussion section conveys applications of your
findings and provides directions for future investigators. If you present
multiple studies, discuss the findings in the order in which they are presented
within the paper.
Interpreting the Meaning of Your Findings. Instead of simply restating
results, a good Discussion section develops readers’ understanding of the
issues at hand. To do this, describe the central contributions of your research
and their significance in advancing disciplinary understandings. Identifying
similarities and differences from prior theories and research findings will help
in this process. Describe the contributions the findings make (e.g.,
elaborating on, challenging, or supporting prior research or theory) and how
findings can be best utilized. Reflect on any alternative explanations of the
findings to clarify the strengths and weaknesses of the explanation that you
selected. More than one valid or useful set of findings may emerge from a
given data set. It is not considered a drawback for there to be more than one
possible interpretation because researchers may centralize different processes
or perspectives; however, findings should remain grounded in the empirical
analysis of the data.
Limitations and Strengths. Include a subsection to identify the strengths
and limitations of the study (e.g., consider how the quality, source, or types
of data or the analytic processes might support or weaken the study’s
methodological integrity, reliability, or validity). Within this subsection,
describe the limits of the scope of generalizability or transferability (e.g.,
issues readers should consider when using findings across contexts).
Study Implications. Convey to readers how your findings might be used and
their implications. In this process, you might outline emerging research
questions, theoretical insights, new understandings, or methodological
designs that advantage the conceptualization, implementation, review, or
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 178 ---

reporting of future studies. In addition, implications for policy, clinical
practice, and advocacy can be communicated to assist readers in
implementing your findings.
3.17 Qualitative Meta-Analysis Standards
Qualitative meta-analyses (see Section 1.5) have unique reporting standards
that are available in full on the JARS website
(https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/qual-table-2.pdf). Two features of qualitative
meta-analysis reporting highlighted in this section are reporting on the
aggregative process and reporting situatedness.
Reporting on the Aggregative Process. The methodological integrity of the
results of meta-analyses rests largely on the extent to which those carrying
out the analysis can detail and defend the choices they made of studies to
review and the process they undertook to weigh and integrate the findings of
the studies. Authors of meta-analyses often aggregate qualitative studies from
multiple methodological or theoretical approaches, and they must
communicate the approaches of the studies they reviewed as well as their
own approach to secondary data analysis. Qualitative meta-analysis involves
the interpretive aggregation of thematic findings rather than reanalysis of
primary data. Forms of qualitative meta-analysis range on a continuum from
assessing the ways findings do or do not replicate each other to arranging
interpreted findings into narrative accounts that relate the studies to one
another. Authors of meta-analyses enhance their fidelity to the findings by
considering the contradictions and ambiguities within and across studies.
Reporting Situatedness. Another factor that distinguishes qualitative meta-
analyses from primary qualitative analyses is that they often include an
examination of the situatedness of the authors of the primary studies
reviewed (e.g., the perspectives of the primary researchers as well as their
social positions and contexts and their studies’ reflection of these
perspectives). Situatedness can be considered in the Findings/Results or
Discussion section and may be presented narratively or in tables when
simplifying the presentation of trends. See the online table for complete
information on reporting qualitative meta-analyses.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 179 ---

Reporting Standards for Mixed Methods Research
3.18 Basic Expectations for Mixed Methods Research Reporting
Whereas standards for reporting information in the abstract and introduction
of a paper are common to all kinds of research (see Sections 3.3–3.4), there
are specific reporting standards for mixed methods research articles. The
basic expectations for reporting mixed methods research are presented in
Table 3.3. Standards specific to quantitative and qualitative research are
presented in Sections 3.5 to 3.12 and 3.13 to 3.17, respectively.
Table 3.3 Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Mixed)
Title and Title Page
Title
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Guidance for Authors
Refrain from using words that are either qualitative (e.g., “explore,” “understand”) or quantitative
(e.g., “determinants,” “correlates”) because mixed methods stands in the middle between
qualitative and quantitative research.
Reference the mixed methods, qualitative methods, and quantitative methods used.
Author Note
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Abstract
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Indicate the mixed methods design, including types of participants or data sources, analytic strategy,
main results/findings, and major implications/significance.
Guidance for Authors
Specify the type of mixed methods design used. See the note on types of designs in the Research
Design Overview section of this table.
Consider using one keyword that describes the type of mixed methods design and one that
describes the problem addressed.
Describe your approach(es) to inquiry and, if relevant, how intersecting approaches to inquiry are
combined when this description will facilitate the review process and intelligibility of your paper. If
your work is not grounded in a specific approach(es) to inquiry or your approach would be too
complicated to explain in the allotted word count, however, it would not be advisable to provide
explication on this point in the abstract.
Introduction
Description of Research Problems/Questions
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 180 ---

Guidance for Authors
This section may convey barriers in the literature that suggest a need for both qualitative and
quantitative data.
Guidance for Reviewers
Theory or conceptual framework use in mixed methods varies depending on the specific mixed
methods design or procedures used. Theory may be used inductively or deductively (or both) in
mixed methods research.
Study Objectives/Aims/Research Goals
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
State three types of research objectives/aims/goals: qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods.
Order these goals to reflect the type of mixed methods design used.
Describe the ways approaches to inquiry were combined, as it illuminates the objectives and mixed
methods rationale (e.g., descriptive, interpretive, feminist, psychoanalytic, postpositivist, critical, post-
modern, constructivist, or pragmatic approaches).
Guidance for Reviewers
A mixed methods objective, aim, or goal may not be familiar to reviewers. It describes the results to
be obtained from using the mixed methods design type where “mixing” or integration occurs (e.g.,
the aim is to explain quantitative survey results with qualitative interviews in an explanatory
sequential design). For instance, the goal of a qualitative phase could be the development of a
conceptual model, the goal of a quantitative phase could be hypothesis testing based upon that
model, and the goal of the mixed methods phase could be to generate integrated support for a
theory based upon quantitative and qualitative evidence.
Method
Research Design Overview
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Explain why mixed methods research is appropriate as a methodology given the paper’s goals.
Identify the type of mixed methods design used and define it.
Indicate the qualitative approach to inquiry and the quantitative design used within the mixed methods
design type (e.g., ethnography, randomized experiment).
If multiple approaches to inquiry were combined, describe how this was done and provide a rationale
(e.g., descriptive, interpretive, feminist, psychoanalytic, postpositivist, critical, postmodern,
constructivist, or pragmatic approaches), as it illuminates the mixed method in use.
Provide a rationale or justification for the need to collect both qualitative and quantitative data and the
added value of integrating the results (findings) from the two data sets.
Guidance for Reviewers
Because mixed methods research is a relatively new methodology, it is helpful to provide a
definition of it from a major reference in the field.
Mixed methods research involves rigorous methods, both qualitative and quantitative. Refer to the
qualitative and quantitative standards for details of rigor.
One of the most widely discussed topics in the mixed methods literature would be research
designs. There is not a generic mixed methods design but rather multiple types of designs. Basic,
core designs include convergent design, explanatory sequential design, and exploratory sequential
design. Although the names and types of designs may differ among mixed methods writers, a
common understanding is that the procedures for conducting a mixed methods study may differ
from one project to another. Further, these basic procedures can be expanded by linking mixed
methods to other designs (e.g., an intervention or experimental trial mixed methods study), to
theories or standpoints (e.g., a feminist mixed methods study), or to other methodologies (e.g., a
participatory action research mixed methods study).
PARTICIPANTS OR OTHER DATA SOURCES
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
When data are collected from multiple sources, clearly identify the sources of qualitative and
quantitative data (e.g., participants, text), their characteristics, and the relationship between the data
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 181 ---

sets, if there is one (e.g., an embedded design).
State the data sources in the order of procedures used in the design type (e.g., qualitative sources
first in an exploratory sequential design followed by quantitative sources), if a sequenced design is
used in the mixed methods study.
Guidance for Authors
Because multiple sources of data are collected, separate descriptions of samples are needed when
they differ. A table of qualitative sources and quantitative sources is helpful. This table could
include type of data, when data were collected, and from whom. This table might also include study
aims/research questions for each data source and anticipated outcomes of the study. In mixed
methods research, this table is often called an “implementation matrix.”
Rather than describe data as represented in numbers versus words, it is better to describe sources
of data as open-ended information (e.g., qualitative interviews) and closed-ended information (e.g.,
quantitative instruments).
RESEARCHER DESCRIPTION
See the JARS–Qual Standards (Table 3.2).
Guidance for Authors
Because mixed methods research includes qualitative research, and reflexivity is often included in
qualitative research, we recommend statements as to how the researchers’ backgrounds influence
the research.
Guidance for Reviewers
It is helpful to establish in a publication the researchers’ experiences (or research teams’
experiences) with both qualitative and quantitative research as a prerequisite for conducting mixed
methods research.
Participant Recruitment
PARTICIPANT SAMPLING OR SELECTION
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Describe the qualitative and the quantitative sampling in separate sections.
Relate the order of the sections to the procedures used in the mixed methods design type.
PARTICIPANT RECRUITMENT
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Discuss the recruitment strategy for qualitative and quantitative research separately.
Data Collection
DATA–COLLECTION/IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
RECORDING AND TRANSFORMING THE DATA
See the JARS–Qual Standards (Table 3.2).
Data Analysis
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Devote separate sections to the qualitative data analysis, the quantitative data analysis, and the
mixed methods analysis. This mixed methods analysis consists of ways that the quantitative and
qualitative results were “mixed” or integrated according to the type of mixed methods design used
(e.g., merged in a convergent design, connected in explanatory sequential designs and in exploratory
sequential designs).
Validity, Reliability, and Methodological Integrity
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Indicate methodological integrity, quantitative validity and reliability, and mixed methods validity or
legitimacy. Further assessments of mixed methods integrity are also indicated to show the quality of
the research process and the inferences drawn from the intersection of the quantitative and qualitative
data.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 182 ---

Findings/Results
Findings/Results Subsections
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Indicate how the qualitative and quantitative results were “mixed” or integrated (e.g., discussion;
tables of joint displays; graphs; data transformation in which one form of data is transformed to the
other, such as qualitative text, codes, or themes transformed into quantitative counts or variables).
Guidance for Authors
In mixed methods research, the Findings section typically includes sections on qualitative findings,
quantitative results, and mixed methods results. This section should mirror the type of mixed
methods design in terms of sequence (i.e., whether quantitative strand or qualitative strand comes
first; if both are gathered at the same time, either qualitative findings or quantitative results could
be presented first).
Guidance for Reviewers
In mixed methods Results sections (or in the Discussion section to follow), authors are conveying
their mixed methods analysis through “joint display” tables or graphs that array qualitative results
(e.g., themes) against the quantitative results (e.g., categorical or continuous data). This enables
researchers to directly compare results or to see how results differ between the quantitative and
qualitative strands.
Discussion
Discussion Subsections
See the JARS–Quant and JARS–Qual Standards (Tables 3.1–3.2).
Guidance for Authors
Typically, the Discussion section, like the Method and Findings/Results, mirrors in sequence the
procedures used in the type of mixed methods design. It also reflects on the implications of the
integrated findings from across the two methods.
Note.JARS–Qual = qualitative journal article reporting standards; JARS–Quant = quantitative journal article reporting
standards.
The inherent assumption of mixed methods research is that the combined
qualitative findings and quantitative results lead to additional insights not
gleaned from the qualitative or quantitative findings alone (Creswell, 2015;
Greene, 2007; Tashakkori & Teddlie, 2010). In mixed methods research, the
thoughtful integration of qualitative findings and quantitative results leads to
a deeper understanding of the data and enhanced insights. In addition, authors
can publish multiple papers from a single mixed methods study, such as a
qualitative study paper, a quantitative study paper, and a mixed methods
overview paper.
Incorporating Both Quantitative and Qualitative Standards. The
thoughtful and robust use of mixed methods requires researchers to meet the
standards of both quantitative and qualitative research methodology in the
design, implementation, and reporting stages. To this end, various mixed
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 183 ---

methods designs have emerged in the literature (Creswell & Plano Clark,
2017), and they help inform the procedures used in reporting studies (e.g.,
convergent design, exploratory sequential design, explanatory sequential
design). Typically, additional mixed methods standards also need to be met
along with quantitative and qualitative standards. Authors may use their
discretion in presenting the sequence of studies but are encouraged to present
them in a way that shows a logical progression of narrative as well as an audit
trail (Merriam & Tisdell, 2016).
Reflecting on the Gains From Integration. The standards for mixed
methods designs emphasize the need to not only present both qualitative and
quantitative aspects of the research but also describe their integration
throughout the sections of the paper. The mixed methods guidelines assist
authors in describing the combination of qualitative and quantitative
methods. Authors should convey not only how the qualitative and
quantitative methods contribute to the study goals but also how they enhance
one another to provide a greater depth of understanding or further the
research aims.
1The tables and figure in this chapter can also be found on the JARS website
(https://apastyle.apa.org/jars) in the guidelines for quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods
research designs, with different numbering. The JARS website has additional tables for other
research designs, including experimental (e.g., clinical trials), nonexperimental (e.g.,
observational), and special (e.g., longitudinal) designs for authors to use in their research.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 184 ---

4
WRITING STYLE AND
GRAMMAR
The main objective of scholarly writing is clear communication, which can be
achieved by presenting ideas in an orderly and concise manner. Establishing
a tone that conveys the essential points of your work in an interesting way
will engage readers and communicate your ideas effectively. Precise, clear
word choice and sentence structure also contribute to the creation of a
substantive, impactful work.
In this chapter, we provide guidance on achieving the four qualities of
effective scholarly writing: continuity, flow, conciseness, and clarity. This is
followed by general rules for grammar and usage and suggested strategies for
improving your writing.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 185 ---

Effective Scholarly Writing
Being able to communicate ideas clearly and succinctly is a recipe for success
for all writers, be they students submitting assignments to their instructor or
professionals submitting manuscripts to a journal. Effective scholarly writing
balances continuity and flow with conciseness and clarity. By implementing
the techniques and principles described in Sections 4.1 to 4.11, writers will
improve these aspects of their communication and become more effective
communicators.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 186 ---

Continuity and Flow
4.1 Importance of Continuity and Flow
Effective writing is characterized by continuity, the logical consistency of
expression throughout a written work, and by flow, the smooth cadence of
words and sentences. Inconsistencies, contradictions, omissions, and
irrelevancies in your writing style and presentation of ideas can make your
arguments seem less credible. A work that lacks continuity and flow may
seem disorganized or confusing, and details may seem incomplete or
inconsistent. Readers will better understand your ideas if you aim for
continuity in words, concepts, and thematic development from the opening
statement to the conclusion. Explain relationships between ideas clearly, and
present ideas in a logical order to improve the readability of your paper.
4.2 Transitions
To improve continuity and flow in your writing, check transitions between
sentences, paragraphs, and ideas to ensure that the text is smooth and clear
rather than abrupt or disjointed. When editing your writing, use additional
transitional devices to make it less choppy. Text that sounds choppy or
disjointed may indicate that you have abandoned an argument or theme
prematurely—instead consider amplifying its discussion.
Punctuation marks contribute to continuity and flow by signaling
transitions and demonstrating relationships between ideas. They also reflect
the pauses, inflections, subordination, and pacing normally heard in speech.
Use the full range of punctuation. Neither overuse nor underuse one type of
punctuation, such as commas or dashes: Overuse may annoy readers, whereas
underuse may cause confusion. Instead, use punctuation to support meaning.
Likewise, transitional words and phrases help maintain the flow of ideas,
especially when the material is complex or abstract. For example, using a
pronoun that refers to a noun in the preceding sentence not only serves as a
transition but also avoids repetition. Be sure the referent is obvious. Other
transitional words and phrases include the following:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 187 ---

time links (e.g., “then,” “next,” “after,” “while,” “since”)
cause–effect links (e.g., “therefore,” “consequently,” “as a result”)
addition links (e.g., “in addition,” “moreover,” “furthermore,” “similarly”)
contrast links (e.g., “but,” “conversely,” “nevertheless,” “however,”
“although”)
Use adverbs judiciously as introductory or transitional words (e.g., adverbs
such as “certainly,” “consequently,” “conversely,” “fortunately,”
“importantly,” “interestingly,” “more importantly,” “regrettably,” and
“similarly”). Writers often overuse adverbs, so ask yourself whether the
introduction or transition is needed. For example, both “importantly” and
“interestingly” can often be recast to enhance the message of a sentence or
simply omitted without a loss of meaning.
4.3 Noun Strings
Noun strings‚ meaning several nouns placed one after another to modify a
final noun, can confuse readers and force them to question how the words
relate to one another. Although skillful hyphenation can clarify the
relationships between words, often the best option is to untangle the string.
One approach to untangling is to move the final noun earlier in the string and
show relationships between the other nouns by using verbs and prepositions.
For example, “culturally sensitive qualitative interview techniques” can be
rearranged to “culturally sensitive techniques for qualitative interviews.”
Consider the following, nearly uninterpretable noun strings and how each
could be better structured:
Noun string Better sentence structure
skinfold test body fat percentage
examination
a caliper examination to determine body fat percentage
a skinfold test to determine body fat percentage
determination of body fat percentage using calipers to
measure skinfold thickness
preliminary online collegiate
instructional methods survey results
preliminary results of an online survey of collegiate
instructional methods
preliminary results of an online survey to assess college
students’ preferred instructional methods
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 188 ---

Conciseness and Clarity
4.4 Importance of Conciseness and Clarity
Say only what needs to be said in your writing: The author who is more
concise—that is, more frugal with words—writes a more readable paper.
Authors seeking publication and students completing assignments increase
their chances of success when they write concisely. Likewise, writing that is
clear and precise is more accurate and transparent. In combination,
conciseness and clarity in your writing ensure that readers understand your
meaning.
Some writers may fear that writing concisely will make their papers too
short. However, adding extraneous material or “fluff” to make your paper
longer will dilute its focus and meaning and will not improve your chances of
publication or of getting a favorable grade. If your paper is too short when
written concisely, your ideas and themes may need to be further developed to
add substance.
Where possible, tighten language to eliminate wordiness, redundancy (see
Section 4.5), evasiveness, overuse of the passive voice, circumlocution, and
clumsy prose. Shorten or eliminate overly detailed descriptions of equipment
or apparatus, participants, or procedures (beyond those called for in journal
article reporting standards; see Chapter 3); elaborations of the obvious; and
irrelevant observations or asides. Information that would cause the paper to
be too long and is not essential to understanding the research—but would
nonetheless be helpful to a subset of readers—may be placed, when
appropriate, in supplemental materials (see Section 2.15).
Short words and short sentences are easier to comprehend than long ones
(see Section 4.6). A long technical term, however, may be more precise than
several short words, and technical terms are inseparable from scientific
reporting. However, a paper with too much jargon or terminology familiar to
only a few specialists does not sufficiently contribute to the literature because
its meaning is obfuscated (see Section 4.9). Rather, the technical terms in a
paper should be either readily understood by readers across disciplines or
defined for readers who may be unfamiliar with them.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 189 ---

Concise writing must also be clear. Be deliberate in your word choices,
making certain that every word means exactly what you intend. For example,
in informal style, “feel” broadly substitutes for “think” or “believe,” but in
academic style, such latitude in word choice is not acceptable. Likewise,
using a word with multiple meanings can cause confusion. For example,
some writers use the word “significant” to mean “important,” whereas others
use “significant” only in the context of statistical significance testing; ensure
that your intended meaning is clear. Choose words and phrases carefully, and
specify the intended meaning if there is potential for ambiguity.
If you use a word or phrase multiple times, do so consistently (e.g., do not
switch between “participants in the music condition” and “participants who
heard the music while completing the task”—choose one presentation and
use it consistently). Some writers deliberately use synonyms or near-
synonyms to avoid repeating a word or phrase. The intention is
commendable, but in practice the use of synonyms can lead to imprecision:
By using synonyms, you may unintentionally suggest a subtle difference.
Therefore, use synonyms with care.
Word choice is especially important when talking about people who are
members of specific groups, such as in a Method section. Carefully consider
the descriptors you use, making sure they are accurate, consistent with
current preferred terminology, and in line with how the individuals you are
writing about describe themselves. In no case should you use biased,
pejorative, or demeaning language (see Chapter 5 for guidelines on using
bias-free language).
Strive for a professional tone and professional language (see Sections
4.7–4.9). Avoid heavy alliteration, rhyming, poetic expressions, and clichés.
Use metaphors sparingly; although they can help simplify complicated ideas,
metaphors can also be distracting or unclear. Avoid mixed metaphors (e.g., “a
theory representing one branch of a growing body of evidence”) and words
with surplus or unintended meanings (e.g., “outstanding” for “remaining”),
which may distract or mislead readers. Use figurative expressions with
restraint and colorful expressions with care; because these expressions can be
open to interpretation and even cultural differences, they generally do not add
to understanding for all possible readers. Instead, make direct, logical
comparisons (see Section 4.10) and clearly attribute actions (see Section
4.11).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 190 ---

4.5 Wordiness and Redundancy
Wordiness can impede readers’ understanding by forcing them to sort
through unnecessary words to decipher your ideas. Unconstrained wordiness
lapses into embellishment and flowery writing, which are inappropriate in
academic style. Consider the following examples of wordy and concise
language:
Wordy Concise
at the present time now
for the purpose of for, to
there were several students who completed several students completed
Whereas wordiness refers to using more words than are necessary,
redundancy means using multiple words with the same meaning. Writers
often use redundant language to be emphatic. Instead, use sentence structure
to convey emphasis, for example, by placing the words to be emphasized at
the beginning or end of a sentence. When possible and appropriate for the
context, use the active voice (see Section 4.13) to reduce wordiness and
redundancy. In the following examples, the highlighted words are redundant
and should be omitted:
they were 
both alike one and the same
a sum total in close proximity to
four different groups saw completely unanimous
were exactly the same as positioned very close
absolutely essential period of time
has been previously found summarize briefly
small in size the reason is because
4.6 Sentence and Paragraph Length
There is no minimum or maximum sentence length in APA Style. Overuse of
short, simple sentences produces choppy prose, however, and overuse of
long, involved sentences results in difficult, sometimes incomprehensible,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 191 ---

language. Varied sentence length helps readers maintain interest and
comprehension. When involved concepts require long sentences, the
components should proceed logically. Avoid including multiple ideas in a
single sentence; instead, break the sentence into shorter ones. Direct,
declarative sentences with simple, common words are usually best.
Similar cautions apply to paragraph length. Single-sentence paragraphs are
abrupt and should be used infrequently. Paragraphs that are too long (i.e.,
longer than one double-spaced manuscript page) risk losing readers’
attention. A new paragraph signals a shift to a new idea and provides a pause
for readers—a chance to assimilate one step in the conceptual development
before beginning another. Look for a logical place (or places) to break up a
long paragraph or reorganize the material.
4.7 Tone
Although scientific writing differs in form and content from creative or
literary writing, it need not lack style or be dull. When writing a scholarly
paper, keep in mind that scientific prose and creative or literary writing serve
different purposes. Devices that are often used in creative writing—for
example, setting up ambiguity; inserting the unexpected; omitting the
expected; and suddenly shifting the topic, tense, or person—do not support
the objective of clear communication in scientific writing. Similarly, devices
or embellishments that attract attention to words and sounds instead of to
ideas are inappropriate in scientific writing.
Thus, when describing your research, present the ideas and findings in a
direct, straightforward manner, while also aiming for an interesting and
compelling style—for example, by fully elaborating on an idea or concept
(see Section 4.2), making word choices that reflect your involvement with the
problem (see Section 4.4), and varying sentence and paragraph lengths (see
Section 4.6). Use language that conveys professionalism and formality (see
Section 4.8). For example, scientific writing often contrasts the positions of
different researchers, and these differences should be presented in a
professional, noncombative manner: Stating “Gerard (2019) did not address”
is acceptable, whereas “Gerard (2019) completely overlooked” is not.
One way to achieve the right tone is to imagine a specific reader you intend
to reach and write in a way that will inform and persuade that individual. For
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 192 ---

example, your reader might be a researcher in a related field who is trying to
keep abreast of the literature but is not familiar with the jargon or insider
perspectives of your field. What would facilitate this reader’s understanding
of and appreciation for the importance of your work?
4.8 Contractions and Colloquialisms
Avoid using contractions and colloquialisms, which detract from a
professional tone in scholarly writing. Contractions—shortened forms of one
or two words in which an apostrophe is used in place of missing letters—
generally do not appear in scholarly writing because they convey an informal
tone. To avoid contractions and improve your writing, evaluate words with
apostrophes carefully. Except for cases noted, rewrite a word like “can’t” into
“cannot.” Use apostrophes to indicate possession (e.g., “the student’s work”),
but remember that possessive pronouns do not include apostrophes (e.g.,
write “its purpose was” not “it’s purpose was”). However, contractions can
be appropriately used in some circumstances, such as in reproducing a direct
quotation that contains a contraction (e.g., when quoting a research
participant, do not change a participant’s use of “let’s go” to “let us go”),
referring to a contraction as a linguistic example (e.g., when discussing
confusion of “who’s” with “whose”), or referring to an idiom or common
saying that contains a contraction (e.g., “you can’t take it with you”).
Likewise, avoid colloquialisms, which are informal expressions used in
everyday speech and writing (e.g., “to write up” instead of “to report,”
“gonna” instead of “going to”). These expressions often diffuse meaning, as
in the case of approximations of quantity; “quite a large part,” “practically
all,” and “very few” are interpreted differently by different readers or in
different contexts. Approximations weaken statements, especially those
describing empirical observations. Instead, use precise, scholarly language.
4.9 Jargon
Jargon is specialized terminology that is unfamiliar to those outside a specific
group. Overuse of jargon, even in papers in which that vocabulary is relevant,
hinders comprehension. Jargon also may be euphemistic if substituted for a
familiar term (e.g., “period of economic adjustment” instead of “recession”),
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 193 ---

and you should avoid using jargon in this way. Bureaucratic jargon has had
the greatest publicity, but academic or scientific jargon may also grate on
readers, encumber communication, and waste space. Ensure that the language
you use allows readers to understand your writing even if they are not experts
in your field, and define on first use any specialized terms that are key to
your topic.
4.10 Logical Comparisons
Ensure that the comparisons you make are expressed clearly and logically.
Ambiguous or illogical comparisons result from the omission of key words or
from nonparallel structure (see Section 4.24). Consider, for example,
“Twelve-year-olds were more likely to play with age peers than 6-year-olds.”
Does this sentence mean that 12-year-olds were more likely than 6-year-olds
to play with age peers? Or does it mean that 12-year-olds were more likely to
play with age peers and less likely to play with 6-year-olds? Ambiguity
occurs when parallelism is overlooked for the sake of brevity, as in “The
responses of transgender participants were more positive than cisgender
participants.” One correct way to write this sentence would be “The
responses of transgender participants were more positive than those of
cisgender participants.” Thoughtful attention to good sentence structure and
word choice reduces the chance of this kind of ambiguity.
4.11 Anthropomorphism
Do not attribute human characteristics to animals or to inanimate sources—
doing so is called anthropomorphism.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
Pairs of rats (cage
mates) were allowed to
forage together.
Rat couples (cage
mates) were allowed to
forage together.
“Rat couples” implies a misleading parallel
between human romantic couples and pairs of
rats.
The 
theory addresses The theory concludes A theory might address, indicate, or present,
but it is the researchers (not the theory itself)
who conclude.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 194 ---

Pair active verbs with human actors (e.g., write “we extrapolated the rate of
change” rather than “the study extrapolated the rate of change”). However,
many acceptable constructions in widespread use do not constitute
anthropomorphism because they do not impede understanding or mislead
readers. When describing the content of different sections of a paper, you
may write, for example, “this section addresses” or “the chapter focuses on”
as well as “in this section we address” or “in this chapter, we focus on” (see
Section 6.3 for comma use with introductory phrases). Similarly, when
describing the results of a study, you may write “the results suggest,” “the
data provide,” “the research contributes,” “the study found,” and so forth.
Determining what constitutes anthropomorphism can be challenging, and
even distinguished scholars may disagree. In ambiguous cases, we
recommend that authors keep the principle of clear communication at the
forefront of their word choice and sentence structure.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 195 ---

Grammar and Usage
Incorrect grammar and careless construction of sentences distract readers,
introduce ambiguity, and impede clear communication. The examples in this
section represent common grammar and usage errors that often appear in
papers submitted to journal editors and academic instructors.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 196 ---

Verbs
4.12 Verb Tense
Verbs are vigorous, direct communicators. The past tense is appropriate when
expressing an action or a condition that occurred at a specific, definite time in
the past, such as when discussing another researcher’s work. The present
perfect tense is appropriate to express a past action or condition that did not
occur at a specific, definite time or to describe an action beginning in the past
and continuing to the present.
Use verb tenses consistently, and stay within the chosen tense to ensure
smooth expression. Sudden, unnecessary shifts in verb tense in the same
paragraph or in adjacent paragraphs may confuse readers. Use the verb tenses
shown in Table 4.1 to report information in various parts of the paper.
Table 4.1 Recommended Verb Tenses in APA Style Papers
Paper section
Recommended
tense Example
Literature review (or whenever discussing other
researchers’ work)
Past Quinn (2020) presented
Present perfect Since then, many investigators
have used
Method
Description of procedure
Past Participants completed a
survey
Present perfect Others have used similar
approaches
Reporting of results Past Results were nonsignificant
Scores increased
Hypotheses were supported
Discussion of implications of results Present The results indicate
Presentation of conclusions, limitations, future
directions, and so forth
Present We conclude
Limitations of the study are
4.13 Active and Passive Voice
Voice describes the relationship between a verb and the subject and object
associated with it. In the active voice, the subject of a sentence is presented
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 197 ---

first, followed by the verb and then the object of the verb (e.g., “students
completed surveys”). In the passive voice, the object of the verb is presented
first, followed by the verb (usually a form of “to be” + past participle + the
word “by”) and then the subject last (e.g., “surveys were completed by
students”); sometimes, the subject is omitted altogether, resulting in
confusion about who is performing the action.
Choose voice carefully. Both the active and passive voices are permitted in
APA Style, but many writers overuse the passive voice. Use the active voice
as much as possible to create direct, clear, and concise sentences. For
example, use the active voice to describe the actions of participants and
others involved in your study (see Section 5.6), as in “the patients took the
medication orally,” not “the medication was taken orally by the patients.”
The passive voice is acceptable in expository writing when focusing on the
object or recipient of the action rather than on the actor. For example, a
description of the experimental setup in the Method section might read, “the
speakers were attached to either side of the chair,” which appropriately
emphasizes the placement of the speakers, not who placed them. Similarly,
“the tests were gathered promptly” emphasizes the importance of the tests
and their timely collection. When it is important to know who performed the
action, use the active voice.
4.14 Mood
Mood refers to the form of a verb authors use to express their attitude toward
what they are saying (e.g., whether they believe what they are saying or just
wish it were true). Use the indicative mood to make factual statements (e.g.,
“we addressed,” “the findings demonstrate”). Use the subjunctive mood only
to describe conditions that are contrary to fact or improbable; do not use the
subjunctive to describe simple conditions or contingencies.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
If the campus 
were larger, we
would have had access to more
participants.
If the campus was larger, we
would have had access to more
participants.
The campus is not in fact larger;
the writer is only wishing that
this were so.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 198 ---

Use the word “would” with care. “Would” can be used in the indicative mood
to mean “habitually,” as in “The child would walk about the classroom,” or in
the conditional mood to express a condition of action, as in “We would sign
the letter if we could.” Do not use “would” to hedge; for example, change “it
would appear that” to “it appears that.”
4.15 Subject and Verb Agreement
A verb must agree in number (i.e., singular or plural; see Section 6.11) with
its subject, regardless of intervening phrases such as “together with,”
“including,” “plus,” and “as well as.”
Correct: The percentage of correct responses, as well as the speed of the
responses, 
increases with practice.
Incorrect: The percentage of correct responses, as well as the speed of the
responses, increase with practice.
Collective Nouns. Collective nouns (e.g., “series,” “set,” “faculty,” “pair,”
“social media”) can refer to several individuals or to a single unit. If the
action of the verb applies to the group as a whole, treat the noun as singular
and use a singular verb. If the action of the verb applies to members of the
group as individuals, treat the noun as plural and use a plural verb. The
context (i.e., your emphasis) determines whether the action applies to the
group or to individuals.
Singular in context: The 
number of people in the state is growing.
A pair of animals was in each cage.
Plural in context: A number of people are watching.
A pair of animals were then yoked.
Use of “None.” The subject pronoun “none” can be singular or plural. When
the noun that follows it is singular, use a singular verb; when the noun is
plural, use a plural verb.
Singular in context: 
None of the information was correct.
Plural in context: None of the children were finished in the time allotted.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 199 ---

Compound Subjects Joined by “Or” or “Nor.” When a compound subject
is composed of a singular and a plural noun joined by “or” or “nor,” the verb
agrees with the noun that is closer to the verb.
Correct: Neither the participants nor the 
confederate was in the room.
Neither the confederate nor the participants were in the room.
Incorrect: Neither the participants nor the confederate were in the room.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 200 ---

Pronouns
4.16 First- Versus Third-Person Pronouns
Pronouns replace nouns, and each pronoun should refer clearly to its
antecedent. To avoid ambiguity in attribution, use the first person rather than
the third person when describing the work you did as part of your research
and when expressing your own views. If you are writing a paper by yourself,
use the pronoun “I”; do not use the pronoun “we” to refer to yourself if you
do not have coauthors (see also Section 4.17). If you are writing a paper with
coauthors, use the pronoun “we.” Do not refer to yourself or your coauthors
in the third person as “the author(s)” or “the researcher(s).”
However, use the third person to refer to the specific contribution of a
particular coauthor within a paper with multiple authors. In the following
example, Sonia J. Cousteau is one of the authors of the paper:
We assessed children’s language abilities. Sonia J. Cousteau, who is a
speech-language pathologist, trained all testers.
Keep in mind that if you refer to coauthors by name in the text of your
manuscript, you may need to mark out their names each time they appear if
your paper is to undergo masked review (see Section 12.7).
4.17 Editorial “We”
Do not use “we” to refer to people in general, as in “We live on the same
planet, but we rarely truly understand each other”; this use is called the
editorial “we.” It is especially important to avoid the editorial “we” in
multiauthored papers because readers may wonder whether you are referring
to all people, members of your professional group(s), or yourself and your
coauthors. Substitute a more specific noun or clarify your usage.
Correct: 
Psychological researchers typically study decision making in a
laboratory setting.
Incorrect: We typically study decision making in a laboratory setting.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 201 ---

Some alternatives to “we” are “people,” “humans,” “researchers,”
“psychologists,” “nurses,” and so on. However, “we” is an appropriate and
useful referent once a specific subject has been established.
Correct: 
As nurses, we tend to rely on . . .
Incorrect: We tend to rely on . . .
4.18 Singular “They”
Writers should always use the singular “they” to refer to a person who uses
“they” as their pronoun (see Section 5.5 for more on gender and pronoun
usage). Also use “they” as a generic third-person singular pronoun to refer to
a person whose gender is unknown or irrelevant to the context of the usage.
Although usage of the singular “they” was once discouraged in academic
writing, many advocacy groups and publishers have accepted and endorsed it,
including Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary (Merriam-Webster, n.d.-b). The use
of the singular “they” is inclusive of all people, helps writers avoid making
assumptions about gender, and is part of APA Style.
When using the singular “they,” use the forms “they,” “them,” “their,”
“theirs,” and “themselves.” The variant “themself” is also acceptable because
the referent is clearly singular, although “themselves” is currently the more
common usage. The following are examples of correct usage of the singular
“they.”
Each participant turned in their questionnaire.
Jamie shared their experiences as a genderqueer person.
A child should learn to play by themselves [or themself] as well as with friends.
Rowan, a transgender person, helped themselves [or themself] to the free
coffee.
Do not use “he” or “she” alone as a generic third-person pronoun. Use “he or
she” and “she or he” sparingly, and ensure that these pronouns match the
pronouns of the people being described; if you do not know the pronouns
used by the people being described, use “they” instead or rewrite the
sentence. Do not use the combination forms “(s)he” and “s/he” or alternate
“he” and “she” (unless you know that a person uses these forms); these
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 202 ---

choices may have unintentional implications. For further discussion of gender
and pronoun usage, see Section 5.5.
Keep in mind that there are typically many possible ways to write a
sentence. If the singular “they” as a generic third-person pronoun seems
awkward or distracting, try one of the following strategies to rewrite the
sentence.
Strategy Gender neutral Gender biased
Rephrasing When an individual attends
psychotherapy, 
that person can
improve emotional regulation.
Therapy can help an individual improve
emotional regulation.
When an individual attends psychotherapy,
she can improve emotional regulation.
Using plural
nouns or
plural
pronouns
Therapists who are too much like 
their
clients can lose their objectivity.
A therapist who is too much like his client
can lose his objectivity.
Replacing
the pronoun
with an
article
A researcher must apply for 
the grant
by September 1.
A researcher must apply for his grant by
September 1.
Dropping the
pronoun
The researcher must avoid 
letting
biases and expectations influence the
interpretation of the results.
The researcher must avoid 
letting her own
biases and expectations influence the
interpretation of the results.
4.19 Pronouns for People and Animals (“Who” vs. “That”)
Relative pronouns introduce subordinate clauses linked to nouns. Use the
relative pronoun “who” for human beings; use the relative pronoun “that” or
“which” for nonhuman animals (e.g., rats, chimpanzees) and for inanimate
objects.
Correct: The 
students who completed the task
Correct: The instructions that were included
Incorrect: The students that completed the task
Use neuter pronouns to refer to animals (e.g., “the dog . . .
it”). However, it is acceptable to use gendered pronouns if
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 203 ---

the animal has been named and its sex is known, as in the
following example:
The chimps were tested daily. Sheba was tested unrestrained in an open
testing area, which was her usual context for training and testing.
4.20 Pronouns as Subjects and Objects (“Who” vs. “Whom”)
Relative pronouns can be subjects or objects of verbs or prepositions. Use
“who” as the subject of a verb and “whom” as the object of a verb or a
preposition. You can determine whether a pronoun is the subject or object of
a verb by turning the subordinate clause around and substituting a personal
pronoun. If you can substitute “he,” “she,” or “they,” then “who” is correct.
In the following examples, “who” and its replacement personal pronoun are
highlighted to show the substitutions. The sentence with the substitution is a
way to verify whether the original sentence is correct.
Use of
“who” Original sentence Substitution sentence
Correct The participants 
who passed the exam
were given course credit.
They passed the exam and were given
course credit.
Incorrect Eligible participants were mothers, each of
who had a child under the age of 21 with
cancer.
Eligible participants were mothers; each of
they had a child under the age of 21 with
cancer.
Likewise, if you can substitute “him,” “her,” or “them,” then “whom” is
correct.
Use of
“whom” Original sentence Substitution sentence
Correct Eligible participants were mothers, each of
whom had a child under the age of 21 with
cancer.
Eligible participants were mothers; each of
them had a child under the age of 21 with
cancer.
Incorrect The participants 
whom passed the exam
were given course credit.
Them passed the exam and were given
course credit.
4.21 Pronouns in Restrictive and Nonrestrictive Clauses (“That”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 204 ---

vs. “Which”)
Relative pronouns (e.g., “who,” “whom,” “that,” “which”) introduce an
element that is subordinate to the main clause of the sentence, and that
subordinate clause may be either restrictive or nonrestrictive.
Restrictive clauses—also called “that” clauses—are essential to the
meaning of the sentence. Restrictive clauses are not set off with commas.
Therapist self-disclosure 
that conflicts with the patient’s story might hinder
the therapeutic process.
In the example, only self-disclosure that conflicts with the patient’s story, not
all self-disclosure, might hinder the therapeutic process.
Nonrestrictive clauses—also called “which” clauses—add further
information to the sentence but are not essential to its meaning.
Nonrestrictive clauses are set off with commas.
All interviews were conducted at participants’ offices, 
which provided
suitable privacy to secure participants’ anonymity.
In the example, all interviews were conducted at the offices, and all offices
provided suitable privacy.
Although some writers use “which” for both restrictive and nonrestrictive
clauses, APA Style reserves “which” for nonrestrictive clauses and “that” for
restrictive clauses. Consistent use of “that” for restrictive clauses and
“which” for nonrestrictive clauses will help make your writing clear and
precise.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 205 ---

Sentence Construction
4.22 Subordinate Conjunctions
Subordinate conjunctions (e.g., “since,” “while,” “although,” “because,”
“whereas”), like relative pronouns (see Sections 4.19–4.21), introduce
subordinate clauses. Select these conjunctions with care; interchanging
conjunctions with more than one meaning may reduce the precision of your
writing. Although some writers use “while” and “since” when they do not
refer strictly to time, restricting your use of “while” and “since” to their
temporal meanings can be helpful to readers.
“While” Versus “Although,” “Despite,” “And,” or “But.” Use “while” to
link events occurring simultaneously.
Individual goal striving in late adulthood may enrich life 
while reducing
stagnation and boredom.
Otherwise, use “although,” “despite,” “and,” or “but” in place of “while.”
Precise: Although goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the
associations tended to be stronger for women.
Goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, but the associations tended
to be stronger for women.
Imprecise: 
While goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the
associations tended to be stronger for women.
“Since” Versus “Because.” In cases where the meaning of “since” is
ambiguous (it could be either “from a time in the past” or “because”), replace
“since” with “because.” If the meaning is not ambiguous, it is acceptable to
use either “since” or “because” to mean “because.”
Precise: Participants were leaving 
because the light turned green.
Imprecise: Participants were leaving since the light turned green.
4.23 Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 206 ---

An adjective or an adverb, whether a single word or a phrase, must clearly
refer to the word that it modifies. Having modifiers without clear referents
can make it hard for readers to follow the logic of your sentence.
Misplaced Modifiers. Because of their placement in a sentence, misplaced
modifiers ambiguously or illogically modify a word. Eliminate misplaced
modifiers by placing an adjective or an adverb as close as possible to the
word it modifies.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
Using this procedure, the
investigator tested the
participants.
The investigator tested the
participants who were using
the procedure.
The investigator tested
the participants using
this procedure.
The incorrect sentence is unclear about
whether the investigator or the participants
used this procedure.
On the basis of this
assumption, we developed a
model.
Based on this assumption,
the model . . .
Based on this
assumption, we
developed a model.
The incorrect construction says, “we are
based on this assumption.”
Many writers misplace the word “only.” Place “only” next to the word or
phrase it modifies.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
These data provide 
only a
partial answer.
These data only provide a
partial answer.
The answer is partial, not the
providing of it.
Squinting modifiers are a type of misplaced modifier. Because of their
ambiguous placement, they make it difficult to tell whether the modifier
refers to the phrase before or after the modifier.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
My comprehension is
improved when I read slowly.
Reading books slowly
improves my comprehension.
It is unclear whether the reading or
the improvement is slow.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 207 ---

Dangling Modifiers. Dangling modifiers have no referent in the sentence.
Many of these result from the use of the passive voice (see Section 4.13).
You can avoid many dangling modifiers by writing in the active voice.
Correct Incorrect Rationale
Using this procedure, I tested the
participants.
The participants were tested using
this procedure.
I, not the
participants,
used the
procedure.
Armitage and Martinez (2017) found that
the treatment group performed better, a
result congruent with those of other
studies.
Congruent with other studies,
Armitage and Martinez (2017) found
that the treatment group performed
better.
The result, not
Armitage and
Martinez, is
congruent.
4.24 Parallel Construction
To enhance readers’ understanding, present parallel ideas in parallel or
coordinate form. Use parallel structure in compound sentences, series and
lists (see Sections 6.49–6.52), and table stubs (see Section 7.12).
Repetition of Parallel Elements. Ensure that all elements of the parallelism
are present before and after the coordinating conjunction (e.g., “and,” “but,”
“or,” “nor”). For example, if the first part of the clause is introduced by
“that,” the second part of the clause should be as well. When a clause has two
parts (and not three or more), do not use a comma or semicolon before the
conjunction.
Correct: Ford (2020) found 
that homework is positively related to achievement
and that the association is stronger in middle and high school than in
elementary school.
Incorrect: Ford (2020) found that homework is positively related to
achievement, and that the association is stronger in middle and high school
than in elementary school.
Coordinating Conjunctions Used in Pairs. With coordinating conjunctions
used in pairs (“between . . . and,” “both . . . and,” “neither . . . nor,” “either
. . . or,” “not only . . . but also”), place the first conjunction immediately
before the first part of the parallelism.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 208 ---

“Between” and “And.”
Correct: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants
who completed the first task and the performance of those who completed the
second task.
Incorrect: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants
who completed the first task and the second task.
Correct: between 2.5 and 4.0 years old
Incorrect: between 2.5–4.0 years old
“Both” and “And.”
Correct: The names were difficult both to pronounce and to spell.
Incorrect: The names were difficult both to pronounce as well as to spell.
Never use “both” with “as well as”: The resulting construction is redundant.
“Neither” and “Nor”; “Either” and “Or.”
Correct: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor the responses to the
tactile stimuli were repeated.
Incorrect: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor to the tactile stimuli
were repeated.
Correct: The respondents 
either gave the worst answer or gave the best
answer.
Correct: The respondents gave 
either the worst answer or the best answer.
Incorrect: The respondents either gave the worst answer or the best answer.
“Not Only” and “But Also.”
Correct: It is surprising not only that pencil-and-paper scores predicted this
result but also that all other predictors were less accurate.
Incorrect: It is not only surprising that pencil-and-paper scores predicted this
result but also that all other predictors were less accurate.
Elements in a Series. Elements in a series should also be parallel in form.
Correct: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read
the instructions, and to ask about anything they did not understand.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 209 ---

Incorrect: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read
the instructions, and that they should ask about anything they did not
understand.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 210 ---

Strategies to Improve Your Writing
Good writing is a skill learned through practice. In this section, we
recommend strategies to improve your writing. These strategies can aid both
professionals preparing manuscripts for journal submission and students
preparing papers for course submission.
4.25 Reading to Learn Through Example
Reading is one of the most effective practices for authors to improve their
writing because it enables them to learn through example. For instance, a
student tasked with writing a literature review would benefit from reading
other literature reviews (including the literature review sections of longer
works) to see the various ways in which information can be organized and
discussed. Likewise, an author who needs to present complex statistical
information in a table would benefit from seeing how other authors have
organized similar information in their tables. Careful reading in your chosen
area of study will help you learn about not only new developments in the
field but also ways to effectively convey information on the page.
4.26 Writing From an Outline
Writing from an outline ensures that the flow of your paper reflects the logic
of your research or ideas. Creating and using an outline helps you identify
main ideas, define subordinate ideas, focus your writing, avoid tangential
excursions, and find omissions. In the outline, you can also designate
headings and subheadings you will use in your paper (see Sections 2.26–2.27
for more on principles of organization and levels of heading). Outlines can
take many forms, including the traditional format with Roman numeral
headings or a concept map.
4.27 Rereading the Draft
Rereading your own work after setting it aside for a few hours or days allows
you to look at it from a fresh perspective. Taking the further step of reading
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 211 ---

your paper aloud may reveal faults that you previously overlooked and may
help strengthen the tone and style of your writing. You can also try reading
the sections of your paper in reverse order—from the conclusion back to the
introduction—to ensure that you have set up arguments appropriately. Budget
ample time when writing to allow yourself to take advantage of these
strategies.
4.28 Seeking Help From Colleagues
After you have reread your draft, give a revised copy to a colleague—
preferably a person who has published in or studied a related field but who is
not familiar with your own work—for a critical review. Even better, get
critiques from two colleagues, and you will have a trial run of a journal’s
review process. Students are also encouraged to solicit feedback from their
instructor and peers.
4.29 Working With Copyeditors and Writing Centers
Some writers, particularly new writers and those writing in a nonnative
language, may benefit from extra help with their writing. They might hire a
copyeditor to review and proofread their paper or visit a tutor at a university
writing center. A copyeditor or writing center tutor can assist with idiomatic
language use, organization, and other areas. We highly recommend use of
these services for authors who consistently face obstacles in getting their
work published or students who would like to attain more success in the
classroom. Students should check the academic integrity policies of their
institution to determine what kinds of assistance are acceptable.
4.30 Revising a Paper
Revising a draft into a polished paper takes time and effort. Writers should
develop a revision plan. It is best to start with the big picture and work down
to the details. Consider the following broad questions when reviewing your
paper:
Is the central point or thesis of your paper clear? Do the arguments follow
logically from the thesis?
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 212 ---

Is the information well organized?
For students, does the draft meet the parameters of the assignment? If
there is a rubric for the assignment, does the paper address each element
of the rubric?
For authors seeking publication, does the draft fit the journal style and
formatting requirements (see Sections 12.2–12.4)?
At the detail level, check sentences for correct grammar and usage (see
Sections 4.12–4.24). Also check for spelling and grammar errors using the
automatic spell-check and grammar-check functions of your word-processing
program. Although an electronic spell-check cannot take the place of careful
proofreading (because words spelled correctly may be used incorrectly), it
will lessen the chances that typographical errors make their way into the
published article or the submitted assignment. APA uses Merriam-Webster’s
Dictionary and the APA Dictionary of Psychology as its authorities on
spelling (for additional information on spelling, see Sections 6.11–6.12).
Grammar-check functions are useful for identifying problematic sentence
structure. Keep in mind, however, that grammar is complex and therefore
grammar-checkers are not infallible.
Although the Publication Manual addresses many aspects of grammar and
usage, it focuses on the areas that are the most problematic for writers of
scholarly work. For grammatical questions not addressed in the Publication
Manual, consult a trusted grammar reference.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 213 ---

5
BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE
GUIDELINES
Authors must strive to use language that is free of bias, meaning the implied
or irrelevant evaluation of the group or groups they are writing about. As an
organization, APA is committed to both the advancement of science and the
fair treatment of individuals and groups. These principles require that authors
and students who use APA Style avoid perpetuating demeaning attitudes in
their writing. It is unacceptable to use constructions that might imply
prejudicial beliefs or perpetuate biased assumptions against persons on the
basis of age, disability, gender, participation in research, racial or ethnic
identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, or some combination of
these or other personal factors (e.g., marital status, immigration status,
religion). Instead, authors should use affirming and inclusive language.
Long-standing cultural practice can exert a powerful influence over even
the most conscientious writer. Just as you have learned to check what you
write for spelling, grammar, and wordiness, practice rereading your work for
preconceptions about groups of people. Ask people from the groups about
which you are writing to read and comment on your material or consult self-
advocacy groups to determine appropriate terminology. If you work directly
with participants, ask them what terms they use to describe themselves.
Language changes over time, and it is important to use the terms that
individuals and/or communities use to describe themselves, their experiences,
and their practices.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 214 ---

Some attempts to follow the guidelines in this chapter may result in
wordiness or clumsy prose. As always, good judgment is required—these are
not rigid rules. If your writing reflects respect for your participants and your
readers, and if you write with appropriate specificity and precision, you
contribute to the goal of accurate, unbiased communication. This chapter
contains general guidelines for writing without bias that apply across a range
of issues and additional guidelines that address specific topics, including age,
disability, gender, participation in research, race and ethnicity, sexual
orientation, socioeconomic status, and intersectionality. Additional examples
of bias-free language can be found on the APA Style website
(https://apastyle.apa.org).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 215 ---

General Guidelines for Reducing Bias
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity
Precision is essential in scholarly writing; when you refer to a person or
persons, choose words that are accurate, clear, and free from bias or
prejudicial connotations. Bias, like inaccurate or unclear language, can be a
form of imprecision. For example, using “man” to refer to all human beings
is not as accurate or inclusive as using the terms “individuals,” “people,” or
“persons.”
Focus on Relevant Characteristics. Be mindful to describe only relevant
characteristics. Although it is possible to describe a person’s age, disability,
gender identity, participation in research, racial and ethnic identity, sexual
orientation, socioeconomic status, or other characteristic without bias, it is
not always necessary to include all of this information in your report (for a
more detailed discussion of participant characteristics to report in quantitative
and qualitative studies, refer to Sections 3.6 and 3.14, respectively). For
example, you would be unlikely to mention participants’ sexual orientation in
a study of cognition because sexual orientation is not relevant to cognition;
however, you would likely mention participants’ gender in a study of
stereotype threat because gender is relevant to the examination of stereotype
threat. Furthermore, there may be multiple relevant characteristics to discuss;
when this is the case, address the ways in which the characteristics intersect,
as appropriate (see Section 5.10).
Acknowledge Relevant Differences That Do Exist. Part of writing without
bias is not only recognizing that differences should be mentioned only when
relevant but also acknowledging relevant differences when they do exist.
Evaluate the meaning of the word “difference” carefully in relation to the
target population, not the dominant group. For example, a researcher who
wants to generalize the study results to people overall, or students overall,
and so forth, should assess and report whether the sample studied is different
from the target population and, if so, describe how it is different.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 216 ---

Be Appropriately Specific. Once you have determined which characteristics
to describe, choose terms that are appropriately specific, which will depend
on the research question and the present state of knowledge in the field. Do
not mention characteristics gratuitously; however, when in doubt, be more
specific rather than less because it is easier to aggregate data than to
disaggregate them. Consider the appropriate level of specificity early in the
research process—such as when designing the study—because it may not be
possible to gather more data once the study is underway or finished. Using
specific terms improves readers’ ability to understand the generalizability of
your findings and other researchers’ ability to use your data in a meta-
analysis or replication.
Examples of Specificity by Topic. Next, we present examples of specific
language for the topics covered in these bias-free language guidelines; again,
the proper choice will depend on the situation, and these examples represent
just some of the possible options.
When writing about age, exact ages or age ranges (e.g., 15–18 years old,
65–80 years old) are more specific than broad categories (e.g., under 18
years old, over 65 years old; see Section 5.3). Also include the age mean
and median in addition to the range of ages to increase the specificity of
the reporting.
When writing about disability, names of conditions (e.g., Alzheimer’s
disease) are more specific than categories of conditions (e.g., types of
dementia) or general references such as “people with disabilities” (see
Section 5.4).
When writing about gender identity, descriptors with modifiers (e.g.,
cisgender women, transgender women) are more specific than descriptors
without modifiers (e.g., women) or general nongendered terms (e.g.,
people, individuals; see Section 5.5 for how to differentiate between
gender and sex).
When writing about people who took part in research, terms that indicate
the context of the research (e.g., patients, participants, clients) are more
specific than general terms (e.g., people, children, women; see Section
5.6).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 217 ---

When writing about racial or ethnic groups, the nation or region of origin
(e.g., Chinese Americans, Mexican Americans) is more specific than a
generalized origin (e.g., Asian Americans, Latin Americans; see Section
5.7).
When writing about sexual orientation, the names of people’s orientations
(e.g., lesbians, gay men, bisexual people, straight people) are more
specific than broad group labels (e.g., gay; see Section 5.8).
When writing about socioeconomic status, income ranges or specific
designations (e.g., below the federal poverty threshold for a family of
four) are more specific than general labels (e.g., low income; see Section
5.9).
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels
Respect the language people use to describe themselves; that is, call people
what they call themselves. Accept that language changes with time and that
individuals within groups sometimes disagree about the designations they
use. Make an effort to determine what is appropriate for your study or paper,
particularly when these designations are debated within groups. You may
need to ask your participants which designations they use and/or consult self-
advocacy groups that represent these communities to research the issue if you
are not working directly with participants. However, note that some
individuals may use slurs or stigmatizing language to refer to themselves;
researchers should use extreme caution before repeating this language
because doing so can propagate that stigma (see Sections 5.3–5.4 for more on
the use of stigmatizing language with regard to age and disability,
respectively).
Acknowledge People’s Humanity. Choose labels with sensitivity, ensuring
that the individuality and humanity of people are respected. Avoid using
adjectives as nouns to label people (e.g., “the gays,” “the poor”) or labels that
equate people with their condition (e.g., “amnesiacs,” “schizophrenics,” “the
learning disabled,” “drug users”). Instead, use adjectival forms (e.g., gay
men, older adults) or nouns with descriptive phrases (e.g., people living in
poverty, people with learning disabilities, people who use drugs). Some
groups (e.g., the Deaf) have chosen to use a capitalized label to identify and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 218 ---

promote a sense of unity and community (Solomon, 2012); use the label that
the community uses, even when that label is adjectival (note, however, that
not everyone who has hearing loss identifies as Deaf). In particular, the use of
labels where disability is concerned is evolving, and people may disagree
about the preferred approach. When writing about disability, person-first
language (e.g., “a person with paraplegia” rather than “a paraplegic”),
identity-first language (e.g., “an autistic person” rather than “a person with
autism”), or both may be acceptable depending on the group you are writing
about (see Section 5.4).
Provide Operational Definitions and Labels. If you provide operational
definitions of groups early in your paper (e.g., “participants scoring a
minimum of X on the Y scale constituted the high verbal group, and those
scoring below X constituted the low verbal group”), the best practice is to
describe participants thereafter in terms of the measures used to classify them
(e.g., “the contrast for the high verbal group was statistically significant”),
provided the terms are not inappropriate. A pejorative label should not be
used in any form. Abbreviations or series labels for groups usually sacrifice
clarity and may be problematic: “LDs” or “LD group” to describe people
with specific learning difficulties is problematic; “HVAs” for “high verbal
ability group” is difficult to decipher. “Group A” is not problematic, but it is
also not descriptive. Instead, ensure that operational group labels are clear
and appropriate (e.g., “group with dysgraphia”).
Avoid False Hierarchies. Compare groups with care. Bias occurs when
authors use one group (often their own group) as the standard against which
others are judged (e.g., using citizens of the United States as the standard
without specifying why that group was chosen). For example, usage of
“normal” may prompt readers to make the comparison with “abnormal,” thus
stigmatizing individuals with differences. Likewise, contrasting lesbians with
“the general public” or “normal women” portrays lesbians as marginal to
society. More appropriate comparison groups for lesbians might be straight
individuals, straight women, or gay men. Use parallel designations for
groups, especially when presenting racial and ethnic information (see Section
5.7).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 219 ---

Be aware that the order of social group presentation may imply that the
first-mentioned group is the norm or standard and that later-mentioned
groups are abnormal or deviant. Thus, the phrases “men and women” and
“White Americans and racial minorities” subtly reflect the perceived
dominance of men and White people over other groups (furthermore, listing
specific racial minority groups is preferable to writing about racial minorities
in general; see Section 5.7). Similarly, when presenting group data, placing
socially dominant groups such as men and White people on the left side of a
graph or at the top of a table may also imply that these groups are the
universal standard (Hegarty & Buechel, 2006). When referring to multiple
groups, thoughtfully consider the order in which to present them. Do not put
groups in order of social dominance by default; instead, consider options
such as alphabetical order or sample size order. For ease of comprehension,
list groups in the same order consistently throughout a paper.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 220 ---

Reducing Bias by Topic
5.3 Age
Age should be reported as part of the description of participants in the
Method section. Be specific in providing age ranges, means, and medians
(see also Section 5.1). Avoid open-ended definitions such as “under 18 years”
or “over 65 years,” unless referring, for instance, to broad research study
eligibility criteria.
Terms for Different Age Groups. Different terms are used for individuals of
different ages, and these terms are often gendered (see Section 5.5). Use the
terms individuals use to self-describe, whether these are binary gender
categories of boy–girl or man–woman or descriptive and possibly nonbinary
categories of transgender, genderqueer, agender, or gender-fluid.
For an individual of any age, appropriate terms are “person,” “individual,”
and so on. In general, avoid using “males” and “females” as nouns;
instead use “men” and “women” or other age-appropriate words (see
Section 5.5). “Males” and “females” are appropriate when groups include
individuals with a broad age range (e.g., “males” to describe a group that
includes both boys and men).
For an individual aged 12 years and younger, appropriate terms are
“infant” (for a very young child), “child,” “girl,” “boy,” “transgender
girl,” “transgender boy,” “gender-fluid child,” and so on.
For an individual aged 13 to 17 years, appropriate terms are “adolescent,”
“young person,” “youth,” “young woman,” “young man,” “female
adolescent,” “male adolescent,” “agender adolescent,” and so on.
For an individual aged 18 years and older, appropriate terms are “adult,”
“woman,” “man,” “transgender man,” “trans man,” “transgender woman,”
“trans woman,” “genderqueer adult,” “cisgender adult,” and so on.
Terms for Older Adults. Older adults are a subgroup of adults, and the age
groups of older adults may be described with adjectives. On first reference to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 221 ---

a group of older people, be as specific as possible by including the age range,
average age, and median age, when available. Terms such as “older persons,”
“older people,” “older adults,” “older patients,” “older individuals,” “persons
65 years and older,” and “the older population” are preferred. Avoid using
terms such as “seniors,” “elderly,” “the aged,” “aging dependents,” and
similar “othering” terms because they connote a stereotype and suggest that
members of the group are not part of society but rather a group apart (see
Lundebjerg et al., 2017; Sweetland et al., 2017). Do not use these
stigmatizing terms in your research even if your participants use them to refer
to themselves (see Section 5.4 for similar guidance regarding disability).
Likewise, avoid negativistic and fatalistic attitudes toward aging, such as age
as being an obstacle to overcome (Lindland et al., 2015). Do not use “senile”;
it is an outdated term with no agreed-upon meaning. Use “dementia” instead
of “senility”; specify the type of dementia when known (e.g., dementia due to
Alzheimer’s disease). Be sure your language conveys that aging is a normal
part of the human experience and is separate from disease and disorder.
Gerontologists may use combination terms for older age groups (e.g.,
“young-old,” “old-old,” “oldest old”); provide the specific ages of these
groups when introducing them in your paper, and use the group names only
as adjectives, not as nouns (i.e., refer to “young-old individuals,” not to “the
young-old”). When contrasting older adults with adults of other ages,
describe that other age group specifically (e.g., young adults vs. older adults,
middle-aged adults vs. older adults). You can use decade-specific descriptors
if desired (e.g., octogenarian, centenarian). Generational descriptors such as
“baby boomers,” “Gen X,” “millennials,” “centennials,” “Gen Z,” and so on
should be used only when discussing studies related to the topic of
generations. For more information on writing about age, see “Guidelines for
the Evaluation of Dementia and Age-Related Cognitive Change” (APA,
2012c) and “Guidelines for Psychological Practice With Older Adults”
(APA, 2014).
5.4 Disability
Disability is a broad term that is defined in both legal and scientific ways and
encompasses physical, psychological, intellectual, and socioemotional
impairments (World Health Organization, 2001, 2011). The members of
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 222 ---

some groups of people with disabilities—effectively subcultures within the
larger culture of disability—have particular ways of referring to themselves
that they would prefer others to adopt. When you use the disability language
choices made by groups of disabled individuals, you honor their preferences.
For example, some Deaf individuals culturally prefer to be called “Deaf”
(capitalized) rather than “people with hearing loss” or “people who are deaf”
(Dunn & Andrews, 2015). Likewise, use the term “hard of hearing” rather
than “hearing-impaired.” Honoring the preference of the group is not only a
sign of professional awareness and respect for any disability group but also a
way to offer solidarity.
The language to use where disability is concerned is evolving. The overall
principle for using disability language is to maintain the integrity (worth and
dignity) of all individuals as human beings. Authors who write about
disability are encouraged to use terms and descriptions that both honor and
explain person-first and identity-first perspectives. Language should be
selected with the understanding that the expressed preference of people with
disabilities regarding identification supersedes matters of style.
Person-First Language. In person-first language, the person is emphasized,
not the individual’s disabling or chronic condition (e.g., use “a person with
paraplegia” and “a youth with epilepsy” rather than “a paraplegic” or “an
epileptic”). This principle applies to groups of people as well (e.g., use
“people with substance use disorders” or “people with intellectual
disabilities” rather than “substance abusers” or “the mentally retarded”;
University of Kansas, Research and Training Center on Independent Living,
2013).
Identity-First Language. In identity-first language, the disability becomes
the focus, which allows the individual to claim the disability and choose their
identity rather than permitting others (e.g., authors, educators, researchers) to
name it or to select terms with negative implications (Brown, 2011/n.d.;
Brueggemann, 2013; Dunn & Andrews, 2015). Identity-first language is
often used as an expression of cultural pride and a reclamation of a disability
that once conferred a negative identity. This type of language allows for
constructions such as “blind person,” “autistic person,” and “amputee,”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 223 ---

whereas in person-first language, the constructions would be “person who is
blind,” “person with autism,” and “person with an amputation,” respectively.
Choosing Between Person-First and Identity-First Language. Both
person-first and identity-first approaches to language are designed to respect
disabled persons; both are fine choices overall. It is permissible to use either
approach or to mix person-first and identity-first language unless or until you
know that a group clearly prefers one approach, in which case, you should
use the preferred approach (Dunn & Andrews, n.d.). Mixing this language
may help you avoid cumbersome repetition of “person with . . .” and is also a
means to change how authors and readers regard disability and people within
particular disability communities. Indeed, the level of disability identity
integration can be an effective way to decipher the language that is preferred
by the persons about whom you are writing. Those who embrace their
disability as part of their cultural and/or personal identity are more likely to
prefer identity-first language (Dunn & Andrews, 2015). If you are unsure of
which approach to use, seek guidance from self-advocacy groups or other
stakeholders specific to a group of people (see, e.g., Brown, 2011/n.d.). If
you are working with participants directly, use the language they use to
describe themselves.
Relevance of Mentioning a Disability. The nature of a disability should be
indicated when it is relevant. For example, if a sample included people with
spinal cord injuries and people with autism—two different groups with
disabilities—then it makes sense to mention the presence of the particular
disabilities. Within each group, there may be additional heterogeneity that
should, under some circumstances, be articulated (e.g., different levels of
spinal cord injury, different symptom severities of autism spectrum disorder).
Negative and Condescending Terminology. Avoid language that uses
pictorial metaphors or negativistic terms that imply restriction (e.g.,
“wheelchair bound” or “confined to a wheelchair”; use the term “wheelchair
user” instead) and that uses excessive and negative labels (e.g., “AIDS
victim,” “brain damaged”; use the terms “person with AIDS” or “person with
a traumatic brain injury” instead). Avoid terms that can be regarded as slurs
(e.g., “cripple,” “invalid,” “nuts,” “alcoholic,” “meth addict”); use terms like
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 224 ---

“person with a physical disability,” “person with a mental illness,” “person
with alcohol use disorder,” or “person with substance use disorder” instead,
or be more specific (e.g., “person with schizophrenia”). Labels such as “high
functioning” or “low functioning” are both problematic and ineffective in
describing the nuances of an individual’s experience with a developmental
and/or intellectual disability; instead, specify the individual’s strengths and
weaknesses. As with other diverse groups, insiders in disability culture may
use negative and condescending terms with one another; it is not appropriate
for an outsider (nondisabled person) to use these terms.
Avoid euphemisms that are condescending when describing individuals
with disabilities (e.g., “special needs,” “physically challenged,” “handi-
capable”). Many people with disabilities consider these terms patronizing and
inappropriate. When writing about populations or participants with
disabilities, emphasize both capabilities and concerns to avoid reducing them
to a “bundle of deficiencies” (Rappaport, 1977). Refer to individuals with
disabilities as “patients” (or “clients”) within the context of a health care
setting (see Section 5.6).
5.5 Gender
Gender offers an added layer of specificity when interpreting patterns or
phenomena of human behavior. However, the terms related to gender and sex
are often conflated, making precision essential to writing about gender and/or
sex without bias. The language related to gender identity and sexual
orientation has also evolved rapidly, and it is important to use the terms
people use to describe themselves (Singh, 2017; for how to determine
appropriate terms, see Section 5.2; for a list of terms and definitions, see
APA, n.d.-a).
Gender Versus Sex. Gender refers to the attitudes, feelings, and behaviors
that a given culture associates with a person’s biological sex (APA, 2012b).
Gender is a social construct and a social identity. Use the term “gender” when
referring to people as social groups. For example, when reporting the genders
of participants in the Method section, write something like this:
“Approximately 60% of participants identified as cisgender women, 35% as
cisgender men, 3% as transgender women, 1% as transgender men, and 1%
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 225 ---

as nonbinary.” Sex refers to biological sex assignment; use the term “sex”
when the biological distinction of sex assignment (e.g., sex assigned at birth)
is predominant. Using “gender” instead of “sex” also avoids ambiguity over
whether “sex” means “sexual behavior.” In some cases, there may not be a
clear distinction between biological and acculturative factors, so a discussion
of both sex and gender would be appropriate. For example, in the study of
sexual orientation (see Section 5.8), researchers continue to examine the
extent to which sexuality or sexual orientation—attraction to sex, gender, or
some combination of both—is a biological and/or acculturative phenomenon.
Gender Identity. Gender identity is a component of gender that describes a
person’s psychological sense of their gender. Many people describe gender
identity as a deeply felt, inherent sense of being a boy, a man, or male; a girl,
a woman, or female; or a nonbinary gender (e.g., genderqueer, gender-
nonconforming, gender-neutral, agender, gender-fluid) that may or may not
correspond to a person’s sex assigned at birth, presumed gender based on sex
assignment, or primary or secondary sex characteristics (APA, 2015a).
Gender identity applies to all individuals and is not a characteristic only of
transgender or gender-nonconforming individuals. Gender identity is distinct
from sexual orientation (see Section 5.8); thus, the two must not be conflated
(e.g., a gay transgender man has a masculine gender identity and a gay sexual
orientation, a straight cisgender woman has a feminine gender identity and a
straight sexual orientation).
Reporting of Gender. Authors are strongly encouraged to explicitly
designate information about the gender identities of the participants making
up their samples (e.g., whether participants are transgender, cisgender, or
other gender identities) rather than assuming cisgender identities. Cisgender
refers to individuals whose sex assigned at birth aligns with their gender
identity (APA, 2015a). Cisgenderism or cissexism refers to the belief that
being cisgender is normative, as indicated by the assumption that individuals
are cisgender unless otherwise specified (both terms are in use). Genderism
refers to the belief that there are only two genders and that gender is
automatically linked to an individual’s sex assigned at birth (American
Psychological Association of Graduate Students, 2015).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 226 ---

Transgender and Gender-Nonconforming People. Transgender is used as
an adjective to refer to persons whose gender identity, expression, and/or role
does not conform to what is culturally associated with their sex assigned at
birth. Some transgender people hold a binary gender, such as man or woman,
but others have a gender outside of this binary, such as gender-fluid or
nonbinary. Individuals whose gender varies from presumptions based on their
sex assigned at birth may use terms other than “transgender” to describe their
gender, including “gender-nonconforming,” “genderqueer,” “gender-
nonbinary,” “gender-creative,” “agender,” or “two-spirit,” to name a few.
(Note that “two-spirit” is a term specific to Indigenous and Native American
communities.) Transprejudice and transnegativity denote discriminatory
attitudes toward individuals who are transgender. Diverse identity terms are
used by transgender and gender-nonconforming (TGNC) people, and
“TGNC” is a generally agreed-upon umbrella term. These terms are generally
used in an identity-first way (e.g., “transgender people,” “TGNC people”).
However, there is some variation in the field; for example, clinicians often
refer to individuals according to identity (self-identified) or describe gender
variance, gender expansiveness, or gender diversity rather than gender
nonconformity or nonbinary gender. Be sure to use identity labels that are in
accordance with the stated identities of the people you are describing, and
clearly define how you are using such identity labels within your writing.
Sex Assignment. The terms “birth sex,” “natal sex,” “tranny,” and
“transvestite” are considered disparaging by scholars in TGNC psychological
research; by many individuals identifying as transgender, gender-
nonconforming, or nonbinary; and by people exhibiting gender diversity.
Thus, these disparaging terms should be avoided. Additionally, “birth sex”
and “natal sex” imply that sex is an immutable characteristic without
sociocultural influence. It is more appropriate to use “assigned sex” or “sex
assigned at birth,” as this functionally describes the assignment of a sex term
(frequently binary male or female; however, intersex is an accurate
assignment for some) predicated on observation of genitalia and/or
determination of chromosomes and anatomical structures of the body at birth,
which necessarily is interpreted within a sociocultural context. The term
“transsexual” is largely outdated, but some people identify with it; this term
should be used only for an individual who specifically claims it.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 227 ---

Gender and Noun Usage. Refer to all people, including transgender people,
by the name they use to refer to themselves, which may be different from
their legal name or the name on their birth certificate, keeping in mind
provisions for respecting confidentiality (see Sections 1.18–1.19; see also
Section 1.15 for confidentiality in qualitative research). Likewise, to reduce
the possibility of stereotypic bias and avoid ambiguity, use specific nouns to
identify people or groups of people (e.g., women, men, transgender men,
trans men, transgender women, trans women, cisgender women, cisgender
men, gender-fluid people). Use “male” and “female” as adjectives (e.g., a
male participant, a female experimenter) when appropriate and relevant. Use
“male” and “female” as nouns only when the age range is broad or
ambiguous or to identify a transgender person’s sex assignment at birth (e.g.,
“person assigned female at birth” is correct, not “person assigned girl at
birth”). Otherwise, avoid using “male” and “female” as nouns and instead use
the specific nouns for people of different ages (e.g., women) as described in
Section 5.3.
To refer to all human beings, use terms like “individuals,” “people,” or
“persons” rather than “man” or “mankind” to be accurate and inclusive.
Avoid gendered endings such as “man” in occupational titles (e.g., use
“police officer” instead of “policeman”), as these can be ambiguous and may
imply incorrectly that all persons in the group self-identify as one gender.
Instead, use a nongendered term if possible (e.g., “homemaker” instead of
“housewife”). If you use sources that include the generic “man,” generic
“he,” or dated occupational titles, clarify the historical context in which these
terms were used (for more details, see the APA Style website at
https://apastyle.apa.org).
Gender and Pronoun Usage. Pronoun usage requires specificity and care on
the author’s part. Do not refer to the pronouns that transgender and gender-
nonconforming people use as “preferred pronouns” because this implies a
choice about one’s gender. Use the terms “identified pronouns,” “self-
identified pronouns,” or “pronouns” instead. When writing about a known
individual, use that person’s identified pronouns. Some individuals use
“they” as a singular pronoun; some use alternative pronouns such as “ze,”
“xe,” “hir,” “per,” “ve,” “ey,” and “hen” (Swedish gender-neutral pronoun),
among others. Some individuals may alternate between “he” and “she” or
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 228 ---

between “he and/or she” and “they,” whereas others use no pronouns at all
and use their name in place of pronouns. Refer to a transgender person using
language appropriate to the person’s gender, regardless of sex assigned at
birth—for example, use the pronouns “he,” “him,” and “his” in reference to a
transgender man who indicates use of these pronouns.
When referring to individuals whose identified pronouns are not known or
when the gender of a generic or hypothetical person is irrelevant within the
context, use the singular “they” to avoid making assumptions about an
individual’s gender. Use the forms “they,” “them,” “theirs,” and so forth.
Sexist bias can occur when pronouns are used carelessly, as when the
pronoun “he” is used to refer to all people, when a gendered pronoun is used
exclusively to define roles by sex (e.g., “the nurse . . . she”), or when “he”
and “she” are alternated as though these terms are generic. Pronouns
associated with a specific gender have been found to induce readers to think
of individuals of that gender even when the pronoun use is intended to be
generic (Gastil, 1990; Moulton et al., 1978). In addition, exposure to gender-
specific language in a professional context has been linked with a lower sense
of belonging, reduced motivation, and professional disidentification for
individuals who do not identify with that gender (Stout & Dasgupta, 2011).
When writers use the singular “they,” it reduces bias in the way that readers
perceive the individuals referred to in the text and thereby helps ensure that
readers do not feel ostracized by that text.
Avoid using combinations such as “he or she,” “she or he,” “he/she,” and
“(s)he” as alternatives to the singular “they” because such constructions
imply an exclusively binary nature of gender and exclude individuals who do
not use these pronouns. These forms can also appear awkward and
distracting, especially with repetition. However, the combinations “he or she”
or “she or he” (but not the combinations with slashes or parentheses) can be
used sparingly if all people being referred to by the pronouns use these terms.
For further guidance on and examples of how to use the singular “they,” see
Section 4.18.
Terms That Imply Binaries. Avoid referring to one sex or gender as the
“opposite sex” or “opposite gender”; appropriate wording may be “another
sex” or “another gender.” The word “opposite” implies strong differences
between two sexes or genders; however, there are more similarities than
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 229 ---

differences among people of different genders or sexes (see, e.g., Zell et al.,
2015). As noted previously, some individuals do not identify with either
binary gender, and these phrases ignore the existence of individuals who have
disorders or differences of sex development or who are intersex (for more
information, see Accord Alliance, n.d.; APA, 2015a; Blackless et al., 2000;
Intersex Society of North America, n.d.). To describe members of a
relationship (e.g., romantic couples, people in polyamorous relationships),
use the phrases “mixed gender” or “mixed sex” when the partners have
different genders or sexes, rather than “opposite gender” or “opposite sex”;
use the phrases “same gender” or “same sex” when the partners have the
same gender or sex.
5.6 Participation in Research
People participate in research in a variety of settings, including laboratories,
homes, schools, businesses, clinics, and hospitals. Specific terms are used in
certain contexts. When writing about people who participate in research,
descriptive terms such as “college students,” “children,” or “respondents” as
well as the more general terms “participants” and “subjects” are acceptable.
“Subjects” and “sample” are also customary when discussing established
statistical terms and experimental designs (e.g., “within-subjects design,”
“between-subjects design,” “sample-size-adjusted Bayesian information
criterion,” “between-samples estimate of the variance”).
Use the term “patient” to describe an individual diagnosed with a mental
health, behavioral health, and/or medical disease, disorder, or problem who is
receiving services from a health care provider (e.g., psychologist, physician,
nurse, or other provider). This language is consistent with the language used
in the health care system and promotes psychologists as being perceived a
part of, and consistently integrated into, the culture of interprofessional,
integrated health care. However, in academic, business, school, or other
settings, the term “client” (or some other term) might be preferred instead of
“patient.” Within all contexts, respect the individual and/or cultural
preferences expressed by recipients of psychological services and their
families when you choose language to describe those individuals, families, or
populations. (For further information, see Resolution for the Use of the Term
Patient; APA, 2018.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 230 ---

It is also important to recognize the difference between a case, which is an
occurrence of a disorder or illness, and a person who is affected by the
disorder or illness and is receiving care from a health care professional. For
instance, “manic–depressive cases were treated” is problematic; revising the
sentence to read “the people with bipolar disorder were treated” differentiates
the people from the disorder. Likewise, in the medical context, avoid the
terms “patient management” and “patient placement”; in most cases, the
treatment, not the patient, is managed; some alternatives are “coordination of
care,” “supportive services,” and “assistance.”
Broad clinical terms such as “borderline” and “at risk” should be properly
explained when used. Avoid using these terms in a broad sense (e.g., “the
diagnosis was borderline,” “at-risk students”) because such usage obscures
the specific clinical or psychometric meaning of the terms. For example, “the
diagnosis was borderline” in a neuropsychology and psychometric testing
context may be clarified to specify a score on a specific test or instrument
(e.g., “standard scores between 70 and 80 are considered psychometrically
borderline, or between the low average and mildly impaired ranges,
indicating a risk for a diagnosis of X”), whereas in a diagnostic context, “the
diagnosis was borderline” may be clarified to specify a diagnosis (e.g.,
borderline personality disorder). When using the term “at risk,” specify who
is at risk and the nature of that risk (e.g., “adolescents who use substances are
at risk for early school dropout”).
Across contexts, write about the people who participated in your work in a
way that acknowledges their contributions and agency. Sentence structure
plays a key role in this acknowledgment, as does using professional language
(see Section 4.7). Use the active voice to describe your actions and the
actions of participants (see Section 4.13); the passive voice suggests
individuals are acted upon instead of being actors (e.g., “the subjects
completed the trial” and “we collected data from the participants” are
preferable to “the trial was completed by the subjects” and “the participants
were run”). Avoid the term “failed,” as in “eight participants failed to
complete the Rorschach test,” because it can imply a personal shortcoming
instead of a research result; “did not complete” is a more neutral choice
(Knatterud, 1991). These choices will help ensure that you convey respect for
the people about whom you are writing.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 231 ---

5.7 Racial and Ethnic Identity
Terms used to refer to racial and ethnic groups continue to change over time.
One reason for this is simply personal preference; preferred designations are
as varied as the people they name. Another reason is that designations can
become dated over time and may hold negative connotations. When
describing racial and ethnic groups, be appropriately specific and sensitive to
issues of labeling (see Sections 5.1–5.2).
Race refers to physical differences that groups and cultures consider
socially significant. For example, people might identify their race as
Aboriginal, African American or Black, Asian, European American or White,
Native American, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Māori, or some other
race. Ethnicity refers to shared cultural characteristics such as language,
ancestry, practices, and beliefs. For example, people might identify as Latino
or another ethnicity. Be clear about whether you are referring to a racial
group or to an ethnic group. Race is a social construct that is not universal, so
one must be careful not to impose racial labels on ethnic groups. Whenever
possible, use the racial and/or ethnic terms that your participants themselves
use. Be sure that the racial and ethnic categories you use are as clear and
specific as possible. For example, instead of categorizing participants as
Asian American or Hispanic American, you could use more specific labels
that identify their nation or region of origin, such as Japanese American or
Cuban American. Use commonly accepted designations (e.g., census
categories) while being sensitive to participants’ preferred designation.
Spelling and Capitalization of Racial and Ethnic Terms. Racial and ethnic
groups are designated by proper nouns and are capitalized. Therefore, use
“Black” and “White” instead of “black” and “white” (do not use colors to
refer to other human groups; doing so is considered pejorative). Likewise,
capitalize terms such as “Native American,” “Hispanic,” and so on.
Capitalize “Indigenous” and “Aboriginal” whenever they are used. Capitalize
“Indigenous People” or “Aboriginal People” when referring to a specific
group (e.g., the Indigenous Peoples of Canada), but use lowercase for
“people” when describing persons who are Indigenous or Aboriginal (e.g.,
“the authors were all Indigenous people but belonged to different nations”).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 232 ---

Do not use hyphens in multiword names, even if the names act as unit
modifiers (e.g., write “Asian American participants,” not “Asian-American
participants”). If people belong to multiple racial or ethnic groups, the names
of the specific groups are capitalized, but the terms “multiracial,” “biracial,”
“multi-ethnic,” and so on are lowercase.
Terms for Specific Groups. Designations for specific ethnic and racial
groups are described next. These groups frequently are included in studies
published in APA journals; the examples provided are far from exhaustive
but illustrate some of the complexities of labeling.
People of African Origin. When writing about people of African ancestry,
several factors inform the appropriate terms to use. People of African descent
have widely varied cultural backgrounds, family histories, and family
experiences. Some will be from Caribbean islands, Latin America, various
regions in the United States, countries in Africa, or elsewhere. Some
American people of African ancestry prefer “Black,” and others prefer
“African American”; both terms are acceptable. However, “African
American” should not be used as an umbrella term for people of African
ancestry worldwide because it obscures other ethnicities or national origins,
such as Nigerian, Kenyan, Jamaican, or Bahamian; in these cases use
“Black.” The terms “Negro” and “Afro-American” are outdated; therefore,
their use is generally inappropriate.
People of Asian Origin. When writing about people of Asian ancestry from
Asia, the term “Asian” is appropriate; for people of Asian descent from the
United States or Canada, the appropriate term is “Asian American” or “Asian
Canadian,” respectively. It is problematic to group “Asian” and “Asian
American” as if they are synonymous. This usage reinforces the idea that
Asian Americans are perpetual foreigners. “Asian” refers to Asians in Asia,
not in the United States, and should not be used to refer to Asian Americans.
The older term “Oriental” is primarily used to refer to cultural objects such as
carpets and is pejorative when used to refer to people. To provide more
specificity, “Asian origin” may be divided regionally, for example, into South
Asia (including most of India and countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan,
Bangladesh, and Nepal), Southeast Asia (including the eastern parts of India
and countries such as Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Indonesia, and the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 233 ---

Philippines), and East Asia (including countries such as China, Vietnam,
Japan, South Korea and North Korea, and Taiwan). The corresponding terms
(e.g., East Asian) can be used; however, refer to the specific nation or region
of origin when possible.
People of European Origin. When writing about people of European ancestry,
the terms “White” and “European American” are acceptable. Adjust the latter
term as needed for location, for example, “European,” “European American,”
and “European Australian” for people of European descent living in Europe,
the United States, and Australia, respectively. The use of the term
“Caucasian” as an alternative to “White” or “European” is discouraged
because it originated as a way of classifying White people as a race to be
favorably compared with other races. As with all discussions of race and
ethnicity, it is preferable to be more specific about regional (e.g., Southern
European, Scandinavian) or national (e.g., Italian, Irish, Swedish, French,
Polish) origin when possible.
Indigenous Peoples Around the World. When writing about Indigenous
Peoples, use the names that they call themselves. In general, refer to an
Indigenous group as a “people” or “nation” rather than as a “tribe.”
In North America, the collective terms “Native American” and “Native
North American” are acceptable (and may be preferred to “American
Indian”). “Indian” usually refers to people from India. Specify the nation
or people if possible (e.g., Cherokee, Navajo, Sioux).
Hawaiian Natives may identify as “Native American,” “Hawaiian
Native,” “Indigenous Peoples of the Hawaiian Islands,” and/or “Pacific
Islander.”
In Canada, refer to the Indigenous Peoples collectively as “Indigenous
Peoples” or “Aboriginal Peoples” (International Journal of Indigenous
Health, n.d.); specify the nation or people if possible (e.g., People of the
First Nations of Canada, People of the First Nations, or First Nations
People; Métis; Inuit).
In Alaska, the Indigenous People may identify as “Alaska Natives.” The
Indigenous Peoples in Alaska, Canada, Siberia, and Greenland may
identify as a specific nation (e.g., Inuit, Iñupiat). Avoid the term “Eskimo”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 234 ---

because it may be considered pejorative.
In Latin America and the Caribbean, refer to the Indigenous Peoples
collectively as “Indigenous Peoples” and by name if possible (e.g.,
Quechua, Aymara, Taíno, Nahuatl).
In Australia, the Indigenous Peoples may identify as “Aboriginal People”
or “Aboriginal Australians” and “Torres Strait Islander People” or “Torres
Strait Island Australians.” Refer to specific groups when people use these
terms to refer to themselves (e.g., Anangu Pitjantjatjara, Arrernte).
In New Zealand, the Indigenous People may identify as “Māori” or the
“Māori people” (the proper spelling includes the diacritical macron over
the “a”).
For information on citing the Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions of
Indigenous Peoples as well as the capitalization of terms related to
Indigenous Peoples, see Section 8.9.
People of Middle Eastern Origin. When writing about people of Middle
Eastern and North African (MENA) descent, state the nation of origin (e.g.,
Iran, Iraq, Egypt, Lebanon, Israel) when possible. In some cases, people of
MENA descent who claim Arab ancestry and reside in the United States may
be referred to as “Arab Americans.” In all cases, it is best to allow individuals
to self-identify.
People of Hispanic or Latinx Ethnicity. When writing about people who
identify as Hispanic, Latino (or Latinx, etc.), Chicano, or another related
designation, authors should consult with their participants to determine the
appropriate choice. Note that “Hispanic” is not necessarily an all-
encompassing term, and the labels “Hispanic” and “Latino” have different
connotations. The term “Latino” (and its related forms) might be preferred by
those originating from Latin America, including Brazil. Some use the word
“Hispanic” to refer to those who speak Spanish; however, not every group in
Latin America speaks Spanish (e.g., in Brazil, the official language is
Portuguese). The word “Latino” is gendered (i.e., “Latino” is masculine and
“Latina” is feminine); the use of the word “Latin@” to mean both Latino and
Latina is now widely accepted. “Latinx” can also be used as a gender-neutral
or nonbinary term inclusive of all genders. There are compelling reasons to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 235 ---

use any of the terms “Latino,” “Latina,” “Latino/a,” “Latin@,” and/or
“Latinx” (see de Onís, 2017), and various groups advocate for the use of
different forms.
Use the term(s) your participants or population uses; if you are not
working directly with this population but it is a focus of your research, it may
be helpful to explain why you chose the term you used or to choose a more
inclusive term like “Latinx.” In general, naming a nation or region of origin is
preferred (e.g., Bolivian, Salvadoran, or Costa Rican is more specific than
Latino, Latinx, Latin American, or Hispanic).
Parallel Comparisons Among Groups.  Nonparallel designations (e.g.,
“African Americans and Whites,” “Asian Americans and Black Americans”)
should be avoided because one group is described by color, whereas the other
group is not. Instead, use “Blacks and Whites” or “African Americans and
European Americans” for the former example and “Asian Americans and
African Americans” for the latter example. Do not use the phrase “White
Americans and racial minorities”; the rich diversity within racial minorities is
minimized when it is compared with the term “White Americans.”
Avoiding Essentialism. Language that essentializes or reifies race is strongly
discouraged and is generally considered inappropriate. For example, phrases
such as “the Black race” and “the White race” are essentialist in nature,
portray human groups monolithically, and often perpetuate stereotypes.
Writing About “Minorities.” To refer to non-White racial and ethnic groups
collectively, use terms such as “people of color” or “underrepresented
groups” rather than “minorities.” The use of “minority” may be viewed
pejoratively because it is usually equated with being less than, oppressed, or
deficient in comparison with the majority (i.e., White people). Rather, a
minority group is a population subgroup with ethnic, racial, social, religious,
or other characteristics different from those of the majority of the population,
though the relevance of this term is changing as the demographics of the
population change (APA, 2015a). If a distinction is needed between the
dominant racial group and nondominant racial groups, use a modifier (e.g.,
“ethnic,” “racial”) when using the word “minority” (e.g., ethnic minority,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 236 ---

racial minority, racial-ethnic minority). When possible, use the specific name
of the group or groups to which you are referring.
Do not assume that members of minority groups are underprivileged;
underprivileged means having less money, education, resources, and so forth
than the other people in a society and may refer to individuals or subgroups
in any racial or ethnic group. Terms such as “economically marginalized” and
“economically exploited” may also be used rather than “underprivileged.”
Whenever possible, use more specific terms (e.g., schools with majority
Black populations that are underfunded) or refer to discrimination or
systematic oppression as a whole.
5.8 Sexual Orientation
Sexual orientation is a part of individual identity that includes “a person’s
sexual and emotional attraction to another person and the behavior and/or
social affiliation that may result from this attraction” (APA, 2015a, p. 862).
Use the term “sexual orientation” rather than “sexual preference,” “sexual
identity,” or “sexual orientation identity.” All people choose their partners
regardless of their sexual orientation; however, the orientation itself is not a
choice.
Sexual orientation can be conceptualized first by the degree to which a
person feels sexual and emotional attraction; some parallel terms are
“sexual,” “demisexual” (or “gray-asexual” or “gray-A”), and “asexual” (see
The Asexual Visibility & Education Network, n.d.). A person who identifies
as sexual feels sexual and emotional attraction toward some or all types of
people, a person who identifies as demisexual feels sexually attracted only
within the context of a strong emotional connection with another person, and
a person who identifies as asexual does not experience sexual attraction or
has little interest in sexual behavior (see APA, 2015b).
Second, sexual orientation can be conceptualized as having a direction. For
people who identify as sexual or demisexual, their attraction then may be
directed toward people who are similarly gendered, differently gendered, and
so on. That is, sexual orientation indicates the gendered directionality of
attraction, even if that directionality is very inclusive (e.g., nonbinary). Thus,
a person might be attracted to men, women, both, neither, masculinity,
femininity, and/or to people who have other gender identities such as
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 237 ---

genderqueer or androgynous, or a person may have an attraction that is not
predicated on a perceived or known gender identity.
Terms for Sexual Orientation. Some examples of sexual orientation are
lesbian, gay, heterosexual, straight, asexual, bisexual, queer, polysexual, and
pansexual (also called multisexual and omnisexual). For example, a person
who identifies as lesbian might describe herself as a woman (gender identity)
who is attracted to women (sexual orientation)—the sexual orientation label
of “lesbian” is predicated on a perceived or known gender identity of the
other person. However, someone who identifies as pansexual might describe
their attraction to people as being inclusive of gender identity but not
determined or delineated by gender identity. Note that these definitions are
evolving and that self-identification is best when possible.
Use the umbrella term “sexual and gender minorities” to refer to multiple
sexual and/or gender minority groups, or write about “sexual orientation and
gender diversity” (these terms are used by the Office on Sexual Orientation
and Gender Diversity at APA and the Sexual & Gender Minority Research
Office at the National Institutes of Health). Abbreviations such as LGBTQ,
LGBTQ+, LGBTQIA, and LGBTQIA+ may also be used to refer to multiple
groups. The form “LGBT” is considered outdated, but there is not consensus
about which abbreviation including or beyond LGBTQ to use. If you use the
abbreviation LGBTQ (or a related one), define it (see Section 6.25) and
ensure that it is representative of the groups about which you are writing. Be
specific about the groups to which you refer (e.g., do not use LGBTQ and
related abbreviations to write about legislation that primarily affects
transgender people; instead, specify the impacted group). However, if in
doubt, use one of the umbrella terms rather than a potentially inaccurate
abbreviation.
When using specific terms for orientations, define them if there is
ambiguity. For example, the adjective “gay” can be interpreted broadly, to
include all genders, or more narrowly, to include only men, so define “gay”
when you use it in your paper, or use the phrase “gay men” to clarify the
usage. By convention, the term “lesbians” is appropriate to use
interchangeably with “lesbian women,” but “gay men” or “gay people”
should be used, not “gays.”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 238 ---

Inaccurate or Pejorative Terms. Avoid the terms “homosexual” and
“homosexuality.” Instead, use specific, identity-first terms to describe
people’s sexual orientation (e.g., bisexual people, queer people). These
specific terms refer primarily to identities and to the culture and communities
that have developed among people who share those identities. It is inaccurate
to collapse these communities into the term “homosexual.” Furthermore, the
term “homosexuality” has been and continues to be associated with negative
stereotypes, pathology, and the reduction of people’s identities to their sexual
behavior. Homoprejudice, biprejudice, homonegativity, and so forth are
terms used to denote prejudicial and discriminatory attitudes toward lesbians,
gay men, bisexual individuals, or other sexual minorities. Heterosexism
refers to the belief that heterosexuality is normative, as indicated in the
assumption that individuals are heterosexual unless otherwise specified
(American Psychological Association of Graduate Students, 2015). The terms
“straight” and “heterosexual” are both acceptable to use when referring to
people who are attracted to individuals of another gender; the term “straight”
may help move the lexicon away from a dichotomy of heterosexual and
homosexual. For more information regarding sexual orientation, see
“Guidelines for Psychological Practice With Transgender and Gender
Nonconforming People” (APA, 2015a).
5.9 Socioeconomic Status
Socioeconomic status (SES) encompasses not only income but also
educational attainment, occupational prestige, and subjective perceptions of
social status and social class. SES encompasses quality of life attributes and
opportunities afforded to people within society and is a consistent predictor
of a vast array of psychological outcomes. Thus, SES should be reported as
part of the description of participants in the Method section. Because SES is
complex, it is not indexed similarly in all studies; therefore, precise
terminology that appropriately describes a level of specificity and sensitivity
is essential to minimize bias in language around SES (for a discussion, see
Diemer et al., 2013).
Reporting SES. When reporting SES, provide as much detailed information
as possible about people’s income, education, and occupations or
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 239 ---

employment circumstances. For example, when referring to “low-income
participants” or “high-income participants,” classify whether reported
incomes take into account household size, or provide information about the
relation between household incomes and federal poverty guidelines.
Additionally, SES can be described by providing information related to
specific contextual and environmental conditions such as participants’
housing arrangement (e.g., renting a home, owning a home, residing in
subsidized housing) and neighborhood characteristics such as median
household income, percentage of unemployed people, or proportion of
students who qualify for free or reduced-price lunch in local schools.
Pejorative or Stereotyping Terms. Avoid using broad, pejorative, and
generalizing terms to discuss SES. Specifically, negative connotations are
associated with terms such as “the homeless,” “inner-city,” “ghetto,” “the
projects,” “poverty stricken,” and “welfare reliant.” Instead, use specific,
person-first language such as “mothers who receive TANF benefits” rather
than “welfare mothers” (“TANF” stands for “Temporary Assistance for
Needy Families” and is the proper term for the current welfare program in the
United States). When discussing people without a fixed, regular, or adequate
nighttime residence, use specific language that addresses the quality or lack
of housing or length of time without housing, not whether the people consider
their residence a home. That is, use language like “people experiencing
homelessness,” “people who are homeless,” “people in emergency shelter,”
or “people in transitional housing,” rather than calling people “the homeless.”
It is important to note that SES terms such as “low income” and “poor”
have historically served as implicit descriptors for racial and/or ethnic
minority people. Thus, it is critical that authors include racial and/or ethnic
descriptors within SES categories—for example, “This sample includes low-
income and middle-income Puerto Rican fathers.” Implicit biases around
economic and occupational status can result in deficit-based language that
blames individuals for their occupational, educational, or economic situation
(e.g., “attendant economic deficits”) rather than recognizing a broader
societal context that influences individual circumstances. Deficit-based
language also focuses on what people lack rather than on what they possess.
Instead of labeling people as “high school dropouts,” “being poorly
educated,” or “having little education,” provide more sensitive and specific
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 240 ---

descriptors such as “people who do not have a high school diploma or
equivalent.” Alternatively, by adopting a strengths-based perspective, authors
can write about “people who have a grade school education.” Likewise,
instead of writing about an “achievement gap,” write about an “opportunity
gap” to emphasize how the context in which people live affects their
outcomes or opportunities.
5.10 Intersectionality
When authors write about personal characteristics, they should be sensitive to
intersectionality—that is, to the way in which individuals are shaped by and
identify with a vast array of cultural, structural, sociobiological, economic,
and social contexts (Howard & Renfrow, 2014). Intersectionality is a
paradigm that addresses the multiple dimensions of identity and social
systems as they intersect with one another and relate to inequality, such as
racism, genderism, heterosexism, ageism, and classism, among other
variables (APA, 2017b). Thus, individuals are located within a range of
social groups whose structural inequalities can result in marginalized
identities.
Because people are unique, many identities are possible. As one example
of a group with an intersectional identity, Black lesbian women may have
similarities to and differences from other oppressed groups in the meanings
that are assigned to their multiple positionalities. Black women may identify
with the oppressive and discriminatory experiences of White women as well
as with those of Black men. At the same time, Black lesbian women’s
experiences may not be equivalent to those of these other groups. They may
experience discrimination as a response to their race, gender, and/or sexual
orientation. Thus, their experience does not necessarily reflect the sum of
oppressions of racism, sexism, and heteronormativity (i.e., race + sex +
heterosexism) but rather their unique identities and social locations as Black
lesbian women that are not based in or driven by the perspectives of White
women or of Black men (Bowleg, 2008; Crenshaw, 1989). That is, for
example, even though Black women and White women are both women, and
Black women and Black men are both Black, this does not mean that the
perspectives and experiences of the latter groups are the same as or related to
those of Black lesbian women.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 241 ---

Intersectional identities also include experiences of privileged contexts that
intersect with those of oppression. For example, a Laotian immigrant woman
with a disability may experience a sense of safety and privilege because of
her legal immigration status in the United States, but she may experience
discrimination and a lack of access to appropriate resources within and
outside of her family and ethnic community on the basis of her disability
status. A Jewish American adolescent may experience privilege as a result of
being perceived as White but may be the target of anti-Semitic slurs at school
and in social media because of their religious beliefs. These examples
illustrate how perspectives are shaped by the multiplicity of identities and
contexts to which an individual belongs, some oppressed and some
privileged. Aspects of identity such as race, gender, and class can be
oppressed or privileged, in ways that may differ across contexts, and can
result in differing experiences that interact dynamically to shape an
individual’s experiences, advantages, and disadvantages across time and
space. The intersections of multiple identities transform the oppressed and
privileged aspects of each person’s layered, interlocking identities.
To address intersectionality in a paper, identify individuals’ relevant
characteristics and group memberships (e.g., ability and/or disability status,
age, gender, gender identity, generation, historical as well as ongoing
experiences of marginalization, immigrant status, language, national origin,
race and/or ethnicity, religion or spirituality, sexual orientation, social class,
and socioeconomic status, among other variables), and describe how their
characteristics and group memberships intersect in ways that are relevant to
the study. Report participant data for each group using specific terms as
described in Sections 5.3 to 5.9. For example, when describing participants in
terms of their race and gender, write “20 participants were African American
women, 15 participants were European American women, 23 participants
were African American men, and 18 participants were European American
men (all participants were cisgender)” rather than “35 participants were
women and 41 were men; 43 were African American and 33 were European
American.” Reporting participant characteristics in this way helps readers
understand how many groups there are that are composed of individuals with
the same characteristics. Likewise, when reporting and interpreting the
results, note the impact of any intersections on the findings rather than
assuming that one characteristic is responsible for what you found. For more
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 242 ---

discussion of intersectionality, see the Multicultural Guidelines: An
Ecological Approach to Context, Identity, and Intersectionality (APA,
2017b).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 243 ---

6
MECHANICS OF STYLE
Style refers to guidelines for ensuring clear, consistent communication and
presentation in written works. APA Style, as described in this Publication
Manual, provides guidelines for writing scholarly papers. Publishers and
instructors often require authors writing for publication and students writing
for a course or degree requirement to follow specific style guidelines to avoid
inconsistencies among and within journal articles, book chapters, and
academic papers. For example, without style guidelines, authors might use
the spellings “health care,” “health-care,” and “healthcare” interchangeably in
one work. Although their meaning is the same and the choice of one style
over another may seem arbitrary (in this case, “health care,” with a space and
no hyphen, is APA Style), such variations in style can distract or confuse
readers.
In this chapter, we provide essential style guidelines for scholarly writing,
including punctuation, spelling, capitalization, italics, abbreviations,
numbers, statistical and mathematical copy, and lists. These guidelines often
overlap with those for general good writing practices. However, we omit
general grammar rules explained in widely available writing manuals and
examples of grammar or usage with little relevance to manuscripts submitted
to journals that use APA Style. Style manuals agree more often than they
disagree; when they disagree, the Publication Manual takes precedence for
APA Style papers or publications.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 244 ---

Punctuation
Punctuation establishes the cadence of a sentence, telling readers where to
pause (comma, semicolon, and colon), stop (period and question mark), or
take a detour (dash, parentheses, and square brackets). Punctuation of a
sentence usually denotes a pause in thought; different kinds of punctuation
indicate different kinds and lengths of pauses.
6.1 Spacing After Punctuation Marks
Insert one space after the following:
periods or other punctuation marks at the end of a sentence
commas, colons, and semicolons
periods that separate parts of a reference list entry (see Section 9.5)
periods following initials in names (M. P. Clark)
Do not insert a space in the following cases:
after internal periods in abbreviations (e.g., a.m., i.e., U.S.)
after periods in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.)
around colons in ratios (1:4)
Note: We recommend using one space after the period or other punctuation
mark at the end of a sentence; however, follow the guidelines of your
publisher or instructor if they have different requirements.
6.2 Period
Use a period or periods in the following cases:
to end a complete sentence
with initials in names (Bazerman, M. H.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 245 ---

in the abbreviations for “United States” and “United Kingdom” when they
are used as adjectives (U.S. Navy; it is not required to abbreviate these
terms)
in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.)
in Latin abbreviations (a.m., cf., e.g., i.e., p.m., vs.)
in reference abbreviations (Vol. 1, 2nd ed., p. 6, paras. 11–12, F. Supp.)
in era designations (B.C.E., C.E., B.C., A.D.; see Section 9.42)
to end each element within a reference (except DOIs and URLs; see
Section 9.5)
Do not use periods in the following cases:
in abbreviations of state, province, or territory names (NY; CA;
Washington, DC; BC; ON; NSW)
in capital letter abbreviations and acronyms (APA, NDA, NIMH, IQ)
in abbreviations for academic degrees (PhD, PsyD, EdD, MD, MA, RN,
MSW, LCSW, etc.; see Section 2.5)
in abbreviations for routes of administration (icv, im, ip, iv, sc)
in metric and nonmetric measurement abbreviations (cm, hr, kg, min, ml,
s)
after URLs in the text (see Section 8.22); instead, place URLs in the
middle of the sentence or in parentheses to avoid ending a sentence with a
URL
after DOIs or URLs in the reference list (see Section 9.35)
Note: Use a period with the abbreviation for “inch” or “inches” (in.) because
otherwise it could be misread.
6.3 Comma
Use a comma in the following cases:
between elements in a series of three or more items, including before the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 246 ---

final item (see also Section 6.49); this last comma is called a serial comma
or Oxford comma
Correct: height, width, and depth
Incorrect: height, width and depth
after an introductory phrase (if the introductory phrase is short, the
comma after it is optional)
After the nurses administered the medication, patients rated their pain.
in this section, we discuss
or
in this section we discus
to set off a nonessential or nonrestrictive clause (see Section 4.21)—that
is, a clause that embellishes a sentence but if removed would leave the
grammatical structure and meaning of the sentence intact
Strong fearful faces, which are rarely seen in everyday life, convey intense
expression of negative emotions.
to set off statistics in the text that already contain parentheses, to avoid
nested parentheses
Sleep amount was not significantly different between the three groups (nap:
M = 7.48 hr, SD = 1.99; wake: M = 8.13 hr, SD = 1.22; nap + wake: M =
7.25 hr, SD = 0.76), F(2, 71) = 2.32, p = .11.
There was a main effect of group on corrected recognition, F(2, 71) = 3.38,
p < .04, ηp2 = .087.
to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunction
Facial expressions were presented, and different photo models were
chosen randomly.
to set off the year in exact dates in the text or in a retrieval date (see
Section 9.16); however, when only a month and year appear in the text, do
not use a comma
Retrieved April 24, 2020, from
in April 2020
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 247 ---

to set off the year in parenthetical in-text citations
(Bergen-Abramoff, 2018)
(Horowitz, 2019, discovered . . .)
to separate groups of three digits in most numbers of 1,000 or more (see
Section 6.38 for exceptions)
Do not use a comma in the following cases:
before an essential or restrictive clause (see Section 4.21) because
removing such a clause from the sentence would alter the intended
meaning
Adolescents
 who spent a small amount of time on electronic
communication activities were happier than those who spent no time on
such activities.
between the two parts of a compound predicate
Correct: Participants rated the items and completed a demographic
questionnaire.
Incorrect: Participants rated the items , and completed a demographic
questionnaire.
to separate parts of measurement
7 years 4 months
2 min 35 s
5 ft 10 in.
6.4 Semicolon
Use a semicolon in the following cases:
to separate two independent clauses that are not joined by a conjunction
Students received course credit for participation; community members
received $10.
to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunctive adverb such
as “however,” “therefore,” or “nevertheless”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 248 ---

The children studied the vocabulary words; however, they had difficulties
with recall.
to separate items in a list that already contain commas (see Section 6.49)
The color groups were red, yellow, and blue; orange, green, and purple; or
black, gray, and brown.
to separate multiple parenthetical citations (see Section 8.12)
(Gaddis, 2018; Lai et al., 2016; Williams & Peng, 2019)
to separate different types of information in the same set of parentheses, to
avoid back-to-back parentheses
(n = 33; Fu & Ginsburg, 2020)
to separate sets of statistics that already contain commas
(age, M = 34.5 years, 95% CI [29.4, 39.6]; years of education, M = 10.4
[8.7, 12.1]; and weekly income, M = $612 [522, 702]).
6.5 Colon
Use a colon in the following cases:
between a grammatically complete introductory clause (one that could
stand alone as a sentence, including an imperative statement) and a final
phrase or clause that illustrates, extends, or amplifies the preceding
thought (if the clause following the colon is a complete sentence, begin it
with a capital letter; see Section 6.13)
There are three main patterns of mother–infant attachment: secure,
avoidant, and resistant/ambivalent (Ainsworth et al., 1978).
Yang et al. (2019) confirmed the finding: Test performance depended on
preparation.
in ratios and proportions
The proportion of salt to water was 1:8.
Do not use a colon in the following case:
after an introduction that is not an independent clause or complete
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 249 ---

sentence
The formula is ri = ai + e.
Target behaviors included eating, sleeping, and socializing.
The participants were asked to
rank the 15 items,
explain their choices, and
close their notebooks when finished.
6.6 Dash
Two kinds of dash are used in APA Style: the em dash (long dash) and the en
dash (midsized dash). These dashes are different from hyphens (see Section
6.12) and minus signs (see Section 6.45).
Em Dash. Use an em dash to set off an element added to amplify or digress
from the main clause. Overuse of the em dash weakens the flow of material,
so use it judiciously. Do not use a space before or after an em dash. Word-
processing programs can be set to automatically convert two back-to-back
hyphens to an em dash. (See Section 6.17 for capitalization following em
dashes in titles.)
Social adjustment—but not academic adjustment—was associated with
extraversion.
En Dash. An en dash is longer and thinner than a hyphen but shorter than an
em dash. Use an en dash between words of equal weight in a compound
adjective and to indicate a numerical range, such as a page or date range. Do
not insert a space before or after an en dash. Word-processing programs have
options for inserting an en dash.
author–date citation
Sydney–Los Angeles flight
pp. 4–7
50%–60%
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 250 ---

A hyphen rather than an en dash is generally used in an abbreviation that
contains dashes, such as the abbreviation for a test or scale (e.g., MMPI-2) or
a diagnostic manual (DSM-5, ICD-11; see Section 6.25).
6.7 Quotation Marks
This section addresses how to use quotation marks other than with direct
quotations (see Sections 8.25–8.36). Quotation marks often appear with other
punctuation marks. Place commas and periods inside closing quotation
marks. Place other punctuation marks (e.g., colons, semicolons, ellipses)
outside closing quotation marks.
Use double quotation marks in the following cases:
to refer to a letter, word, phrase, or sentence as a linguistic example or as
itself
the letter “m”
the singular “they”
answered “yes” or “no”
Instead of referring to someone as a “defective child,” talk about a “child with a
congenital disability” or a “child with a birth impairment.”
Students wrote “I promise to uphold the honor code” at the top of the test page.
to present stimuli in the text (long lists of stimuli may be better presented
in a table, where quotation marks are not needed)
The stimulus words were “garden,” “laundry,” “briefcase,” and “salary.”
Note: Some publishers prefer italics for the presentation of stimuli and
so forth; consult the manuscript preparation guidelines or journal editor
for the preferred format.
to reproduce material from a test item or verbatim instructions to
participants (if instructions are long, present them in an appendix or set
them off from text in block quote format without quotation marks; see
Sections 2.14 and 8.27)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 251 ---

The first item was “How tired do you feel after a long day at work?”
Participants read, “You can write as much as you like when answering the
questions.”
to introduce a word or phrase used as an ironic comment, as slang, or as
an invented or coined expression; use quotation marks only for the first
occurrence of the word or phrase, not for subsequent occurrences
First occurrence:
considered “normal” behavior
called a “friendly link”
Subsequent occurrence:
normal behavior
a friendly link
to introduce a label; after the label has been used once, do not use
quotation marks for subsequent occurrences
The image label changed from "spiderweb” to “dartboard.” The spiderweb and
dartboard labels . . .
to set off the title of a periodical article or book chapter when the title is
used in the text or in a copyright attribution (do not use quotation marks
around the article or book chapter title in the reference list entry)
In text:
Oerlemans and Bakker’s (2018) article, “Motivating Job Characteristics and
Happiness at Work: A Multilevel Perspective,” described . . .
In the reference list:
Oerlemans, W. G. M., & Bakker, A. B. (2018). Motivating job characteristics
and happiness at work: A multilevel perspective. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 103(11), 1230–1241. https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000318
In a copyright attribution:
Adapted from “Motivating Job Characteristics and Happiness at Work: A
Multilevel Perspective,” by W. G. M. Oerlemans and A. B. Bakker, 2018,
Journal of Applied Psychology, 103(11), p. 1236
(https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000318). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Do not use double quotation marks in the following cases:
to highlight a key term or phrase (e.g., around a term for which you are
going to provide a definition); instead, use italics (see Section 6.22)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 252 ---

to identify the anchors of a scale; instead, use italics (see Section 6.22)
to refer to a numeral as itself because the meaning is sufficiently clear
without quotation marks
The numeral 2 was displayed onscreen.
to hedge or downplay meaning (do not use any punctuation with these
expressions)
Correct: The teacher rewarded the class with tokens.
Incorrect: The teacher “rewarded” the class with tokens.
6.8 Parentheses
Use parentheses in the following cases:
to set off structurally independent elements
The patterns were statistically significant (see Figure 5).
to set off in-text citations (see Section 8.11)
Barnes and Spreitzer (2019) described
(Proctor & Hoffmann, 2016)
to introduce an abbreviation in the text (see also Section 6.25)
galvanic skin response (GSR)
Child Report of Parental Behavior Inventory (CRPBI; Schaefer, 1965)
to set off letters that identify items in a list within a sentence or paragraph
(see also Section 6.50)
The subject areas included (a) synonyms associated with cultural
interactions, (b) descriptors for ethnic group membership, and (c)
psychological symptoms and outcomes associated with bicultural
adaptation.
to group mathematical expressions (see also Sections 6.9 and 6.46)
(k – 1)/(g – 2)
to enclose numbers that identify displayed formulas and equations
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 253 ---

to enclose statistical values that do not already contain parentheses
was statistically significant (p = .031)
to enclose degrees of freedom
t(75) = 2.19
F(2, 116) = 3.71
Note: (When a complete sentence is enclosed in parentheses, like this,
place the end punctuation inside the parentheses.) If only part of a sentence
is enclosed in parentheses, place punctuation outside the parentheses (like
this).
Do not use parentheses in the following cases:
to enclose text within other parentheses; instead, use square brackets to
avoid nested parentheses
(Beck Depression Inventory [BDI]; Beck et al., 1996)
to enclose statistics that already contain parentheses; instead, use a comma
before the statistics to avoid nested parentheses
were significantly different, F(4, 132) = 13.62, p < .001.
to enclose back-to-back parenthetical information; instead, place the
information in one set of parentheses, separated with a semicolon
Correct: (e.g., flow; Csikszentmihalyi, 2014)
Incorrect: (e.g., flow) (Csikszentmihalyi, 2014)
6.9 Square Brackets
Use square brackets in the following cases:
to enclose parenthetical material that is already in parentheses
(The results for the control group [n = 8] are also presented in Figure 2.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 254 ---

to enclose abbreviations when the abbreviated term appears in parentheses
(Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory–2 [MMPI-2]; Butcher et al.,
2001)
to enclose values that are the limits of a confidence interval
95% CIs [–7.2, 4.3], [9.2, 12.4], and [–1.2, –0.5]
to enclose material inserted in a quotation by someone other than the
original author (see also Section 8.31)
Schofield et al. (2016) found that “these types of [warm and accepting]
parenting behaviors are positively associated with healthy child and
adolescent adjustment” (p. 615).
to enclose a description of form for some works (e.g., those outside the
typical peer-reviewed academic literature; see Section 9.21) in a reference
list entry
Do not use square brackets in the following cases:
to set off statistics that already include parentheses
Correct: in the first study, F(1, 32) = 4.37, p = .045.
Incorrect: in the first study (F[1, 32] = 4.37, p = .045).
Incorrect: in the first study [F(1, 32) = 4.37, p = .045].
Note: In mathematical material, the placement of brackets and parentheses
is reversed; that is, parentheses appear within brackets (see Section 6.46).
around the year in a narrative citation when the sentence containing the
narrative citation appears in parentheses; instead, use commas (see
Section 8.11)
Correct: (as Gregory, 2020, concluded . . . )
Incorrect: (as Gregory [2020] concluded . . . )
6.10 Slash
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 255 ---

Use a slash (also called a “virgule,” “solidus,” or “shill”) in the following
cases:
to clarify a comparison in a compound adjective, especially when one of
the elements is a hyphenated compound (alternatively, use an en dash; see
Section 6.6)
the classification/similarity-judgment condition
hits/false-alarms comparison
test/retest reliability, test–retest reliability
to specify either of two possibilities
and/or (use sparingly)
Latino/a
to separate a numerator from a denominator
X/Y
to separate units of measurement accompanied by a numeric value (see
Section 6.27); if no numeric value appears with the unit of measurement,
spell out the word “per.”
0.5 deg/s
7.4 mg/kg
cost per square meter
to set off phonemes
/o/
in citations of translated, reprinted, reissued, or republished works in the
text (see Section 9.41)
Freud (1923/1961)
Do not use a slash in the following cases:
more than once to express compound units; use centered dots and
parentheses as needed to prevent ambiguity
Correct: nmol • hr–1 • mg–1
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 256 ---

Incorrect: nmol/hr/mg
when a phrase would be clearer
Correct: Each child handed the toy to their parent or guardian.
Incorrect: Each child handed the toy to their parent/guardian.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 257 ---

Spelling
6.11 Preferred Spelling
Spelling in APA Style papers should conform to the Merriam-Webster.com
Dictionary (https://www.merriam-webster.com ). The spellings of
psychological terms should conform to the APA Dictionary of Psychology
(https://dictionary.apa.org). If a word appears differently in these two
dictionaries, follow the spelling in the APA Dictionary of Psychology. If a
word is not in either of these dictionaries, consult an unabridged edition of
Webster’s dictionary (see https://unabridged.merriam-webster.com). If the
dictionary offers a choice of spellings, select one and use it consistently
throughout your paper.
The plural forms of some words of Latin or Greek origin can be
troublesome (particularly those that end in the letter “a”). A list of preferred
spellings of some of the more common ones follows.
Singular:
Plural:
appendix
appendices
criterion
criteria
curriculum
curricula
datum
data
phenomenon
phenomena
Remember that plural nouns take plural verbs.
Correct: The data indicate
Incorrect: The data indicates
In general, form the possessive of a singular name by adding an apostrophe
and an “s” (e.g., “Milner’s theory”). This guideline also applies when a name
ends in “s” (e.g., “Descartes’s philosophy,” “James’s work”).
The spellings of terms related to technology evolve over time. Use the
following spellings for some common technology words in APA Style
papers:
email ebook ereader database
data set smartphone internet intranet
Wi-Fi website webpage the web
home page username login page (but “log in” 
when used as a verb)
emoji (for the plural, either 
“emoji” or “emojis”)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 258 ---

6.12 Hyphenation
Compound words—words composed of two or more words—take many
forms; they may be written as (a) two separate words (open), (b) one
hyphenated word, or (c) one solid word. Compound words are often
introduced into the language as separate or hyphenated words; as they
become more commonplace, they tend to fuse into a solid word. For example,
“data base” has become “database,” and “e-mail” has become “email.” The
dictionary is an excellent guide for choosing the proper form: When a
compound appears in the dictionary, its usage is established, and it is
considered a permanent compound (e.g., “health care,” “self-esteem,”
“caregiver”). In general, follow the hyphenation shown in the dictionary for
permanent compounds (e.g., write “health care” without a hyphen, even in a
phrase like “health care setting”); adjust hyphenation only to prevent
misreading. Dictionaries do not always agree on the way a compound should
be written (open, hyphenated, or solid); Section 6.11 specifies the dictionaries
to use for APA Style papers.
Another form of compound—the temporary compound—is made up of
two or more words that occur together, perhaps only in a particular paper, to
express a thought. Temporary compounds are not usually listed in the
dictionary. To determine how to hyphenate temporary compounds, follow
these guidelines:
If a temporary compound can be misread or expresses a single thought,
use a hyphen, especially when the temporary compound appears as an
adjective before the noun. When in doubt, use a hyphen for clarity. For
example, “Adolescents resided in two parent homes” may mean that two
homes served as residences or that each adolescent lived with two parents;
a hyphen in “two-parent homes” specifies the latter meaning.
If the compound appears after the noun it modifies, do not use a hyphen
because, in almost all cases, the phrase is sufficiently clear without one.
See Table 6.1 for further examples of hyphen use in temporary
compounds.
t-test results
same-sex children
but
but
results of t tests
children of the same sex
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 259 ---

Table 6.1 Guide to Hyphenating Temporary Compound Terms
Grammar guideline Example
Hyphenate
A compound with a participle when it precedes the term it
modifies
decision-making behavior water-deprived
animals Canadian-born actor
A phrase used as an adjective when it precedes the term it
modifies
trial-by-trial analysis to-be-recalled items
one-on-one interviews
An adjective-and-noun compound when it precedes the
term it modifies
high-anxiety group
middle-class families
low-frequency words
A compound with a number as the first element when the
compound precedes the term it modifies
six-trial problem
12th-grade students
16-min interval
A fraction used as an adjective two-thirds majority
Do not hyphenate
A compound that follows the term it modifies behavior related to decision making
students in the 12th grade
a majority of two thirds
A compound including an adverb ending in “-ly” widely used test
relatively homogeneous sample
randomly assigned participants
A compound including a comparative or superlative
adjective
better written paper
less informed interviewers
higher order learning
highest scoring students
Chemical terms sodium chloride solution amino acid
compound
Latin phrases used as adjectives or adverbs a posteriori test
post hoc comparisons
were fed ad lib (but hyphenate the
adjectival form: ad-lib feeding)
A modifier including a letter or numeral as the second
element
Group B participants
Type II error
Trial 1 performance
Fractions used as nouns one third of the participants
Write most words formed with prefixes and suffixes as one word without
a hyphen. See Table 6.2 for examples of prefixes and suffixes that do not
require hyphens; see Table 6.3 for examples of prefixed and suffixed
words that do require hyphens. The same suffix may be hyphenated in
some cases and not in others (e.g., “nationwide” and “worldwide” vs.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 260 ---

“industry-wide”).
When two or more compound modifiers have a common base, that base is
sometimes omitted in all except the last modifier, but the hyphens are
retained. Leave a space after the hyphen when the base has been omitted,
unless punctuation follows the hyphen.
long- and short-term memory
2-, 3-, and 10-min trials
Table 6.2 Prefixes and Suffixes That Do Not Require Hyphens
Prefix or suffix Example
able retrievable
after aftercare
anti antisocial
bi bilingual
cede/sede/ceed intercede
co covariate
cyber cyberwarfare
equi equimax
extra extracurricular
gram cardiogram
infra infrared
inter intersex
like wavelike
macro macrocosm
mega megawatt
meta metaethnography
meter nanometer
micro microcosm
mid midterm
mini minisession
multi multimethod
non nonsignificant
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 261 ---

over oversampling
phobia agoraphobia
post posttest
pre preexperimental
pseudo pseudoscience
quasi quasiperiodic
re reevaluate
semi semidarkness
socio socioeconomic
sub subtest
super superordinate
supra supraliminal
un unbiased
under underdeveloped
Note. However, use a hyphen in “meta-analysis” and “quasi-experimental.”
Table 6.3 Compound Words That Require Hyphens
Occurrence Example
Compounds in which the base word is
capitalized pro-Freudian
Likert-type
Stroop-like
a number post-1977
an abbreviation pre-UCS trial
more than one word non-achievement-oriented
students
All “self-” compounds, whether adjectives or nouns a self-report technique
the test was self-paced
self-esteem
Words that could be misunderstood re-pair (pair again)
re-form (form again)
un-ionized (not ionized)
Words in which the prefix ends and the base word begins with “a,” “i,”
or “o” b
meta-analysis
anti-intellectual
co-occur
a But “self psychology.”
b “Pre” and “re” compounds are not hyphenated with base words beginning with “e” (e.g., “preexisting,” “reexamine”).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 262 ---

Capitalization
APA Style is a “down” style, meaning that words are lowercase unless there
is specific guidance to capitalize them, as described in the following sections.
6.13 Words Beginning a Sentence
Capitalize the following:
the first word in a complete sentence
the first word after a colon if what follows the colon is a complete
sentence
The statement was emphatic: Further research is needed.
Do not capitalize the following:
a personal name that begins with a lowercase letter when the name begins
a sentence; alternatively, reword the sentence
. . . after the test. van de Vijver et al. (2019) concluded
a proper noun (other than a personal name) that begins with a lowercase
letter (e.g., iPad, eBay) or a lowercase statistical term (e.g., t test, p value)
when it begins a sentence (see Section 6.26); instead, reword the sentence
to avoid beginning with a lowercase letter
6.14 Proper Nouns and Trade Names
Capitalize the following:
proper nouns and proper adjectives
names of racial and ethnic groups (see also Section 5.7)
We interviewed 25 Black women living in rural Louisiana.
names of specific university departments, academic institutions, and
academic courses
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 263 ---

Capitalize Do not capitalize
Department of Psychology, 
San Francisco State University
a psychology department, a university
Psychology 101 a psychology course
Science of Nursing Practice a nursing course
trade and brand names (in general, do not include the copyright or
trademark symbol after a trade or brand name used in an academic paper;
however, such symbols may be included in business and marketing
materials)
Capitalize Do not capitalize
APA Style a writing style
Zoloft sertraline (generic name for Zoloft)
iPhone, Android phone smartphone
Wi-Fi wireless, hotspot
Do not capitalize the following:
proper adjectives that have a common meaning (consult a dictionary for
guidance; see Section 6.11), except for personal names within these terms
eustachian tube
cesarean section
but
Freudian slip
Wilks’s lambda
Euclidean geometry
6.15 Job Titles and Positions
Capitalize a job title or position when the title precedes a name (titles are not
used in bylines; see Section 2.5):
President Lincoln was elected in 1860.
Executive Director of Marketing Carolina Espinoza led the meeting.
Dr. Aisha Singh, Dr. Singh
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 264 ---

Registered Nurse Paul T. Lo, Nurse Lo
Do not capitalize a job title or position when the title follows the name or
refers to a position in general:
Abraham Lincoln was president of the United States.
Carolina Espinoza, executive director of marketing, led the meeting.
president, vice president, chief executive officer, executive director, manager
professor, instructor, faculty, dean
psychologist, psychiatrist, counselor, social worker
physician, doctor, physician assistant
nurse, registered nurse, advanced practice nurse, nurse practitioner
6.16 Diseases, Disorders, Therapies, Theories, and Related
Terms
Do not capitalize the names of the following:
diseases or disorders
autism spectrum disorder diabetes
major depression leukemia
therapies and treatments
cognitive behavior therapy
applied behavior analysis
immunotherapy
cataract surgery
theories, concepts, hypotheses, principles, models, and statistical
procedures
object permanence
associative learning model
psychoanalytic theory
theory of mind
law of effect
two-group t test
However, capitalize personal names that appear within the names of diseases,
disorders, therapies, treatments, theories, concepts, hypotheses, principles,
models, and statistical procedures.
Alzheimer’s disease
non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma
Freudian theory
Down syndrome
Maslow’s hierarchy of needs
Pavlovian conditioning
6.17 Titles of Works and Headings Within Works
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 265 ---

APA Style uses two types of capitalization for titles of works and headings
within works: title case and sentence case. In title case, major words are
capitalized. In sentence case, most words are lowercased. Nouns, verbs
(including linking verbs), adjectives, adverbs, pronouns, and all words of four
letters or more are considered major words. Short (i.e., three letters or fewer)
conjunctions, short prepositions, and all articles are considered minor words.
Title Case. In title case, capitalize the following words in a title or heading:
the first word, even a minor word such as “The”
 the first word of a subtitle, even if it is a minor word
the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading,
even if it is a minor word
major words, including the second part of hyphenated major words (e.g.,
“Self-Report,” not “Self-report”)
words of four letters or more (e.g., “With,” “Between,” “From”)
Lowercase only minor words that are three letters or fewer in a title or
heading (except the first word in a title or subtitle or the first word after a
colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading):
short conjunctions (e.g., “and,” “as,” “but,” “for,” “if,” “nor,” “or,” “so,”
“yet”)
articles (“a,” “an,” “the”)
short prepositions (e.g., “as,” “at,” “by,” “for,” “in,” “of,” “off,” “on,”
“per,” “to,” “up,” “via”)
When to Use Title Case. Use title case for the following:
titles of articles, books, reports, and other works appearing in text
In the book Bilingualism Across the Lifespan: Factors Moderating
Language Proficiency
In the article “Media Influences on Self-Stigma of Seeking Psychological
Services: The Importance of Media Portrayals and Person Perception”
titles of tests or measures, including subscales (see Section 6.18)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 266 ---

Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale
WAIS-IV Verbal Comprehension Index
all headings within a work (Levels 1–5; see Section 2.27)
the title of your own paper and of named sections and subsections within
it
the Data Analyses section
titles of periodicals (these are also italicized)
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition
The Washington Post
table titles (these are also italicized; see Section 7.11)
figure titles (these are also italicized), axis labels, and legends (see
Sections 7.25–7.27)
Sentence Case. In sentence case, lowercase most words in the title or
heading. Capitalize only the following words:
the first word of the title or heading
the first word of a subtitle
the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading
nouns followed by numerals or letters
proper nouns
When to Use Sentence Case. Use sentence case for the following:
titles of articles, books, reports, webpages, and other works in reference
list entries, even if title case was used in the original work (see also
Section 9.19)
Golden, A. R., Griffin, C. B., Metzger, I. W., & Cooper, S. M. (2018). School
racial climate and academic outcomes in African American adolescents: The
protective role of peers. Journal of Black Psychology, 44(1), 47–73.
https://doi.org/10.1177/0095798417736685
Mena, J. A., & Quina, K. (Eds.). (2019). Integrating multiculturalism and
intersectionality into the psychology curriculum: Strategies for instructors.
American Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000137-000
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 267 ---

table column headings, entries, and notes (see Sections 7.12–7.14)
figure notes (see Section 7.28)
Note: Words in the image of a figure (see Section 7.26) may be in either title
case or sentence case. Follow the same guidelines for capitalization in a
figure image as used in the text.
6.18 Titles of Tests and Measures
Capitalize titles of published and unpublished tests and measures and their
subscales. Do not capitalize words such as “test” and “scale” unless they are
part of the test or subscale title. See Section 10.11 for more on use of italics
with the titles of test and measures.
Thematic Apperception Test
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory–2
MMPI-2 Depression scale
Stroop Color–Word Interference Test
the authors’ Mood Adjective Checklist
SF–36 Physical Functioning scale
Do not capitalize shortened, inexact, or generic titles of tests or measures.
a vocabulary test   Stroop-like color test
6.19 Nouns Followed by Numerals or Letters
Capitalize nouns followed by numerals or letters that denote a specific place
in a series.
Figure 3
Appendix B
Footnote 2
Trials 5 and 6
Grant AG11214
Table 1, Row 2, Column 6
Research Question 3
Days 7–9
Part 4
Chapter 8
Exception: Do not capitalize the words “page” or “paragraph” before a
numeral, in accordance with long-standing practice.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 268 ---

page 2
paragraph 4
Do not capitalize the following:
the words “numeral” or “letter” when referring to a numeral or letter as
itself because the numeral or letter does not denote a place in a series
beyond integers or the alphabet
the numeral 7
the letter “a”
nouns that precede a variable
trial n and item x
but
Trial 3 and Item b (The number and letter are not variables.)
names of genes and proteins that include numerals or letters
nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1
6.20 Names of Conditions or Groups in an Experiment
Do not capitalize names of conditions or groups in an experiment.
the experimental and control groups
participants were assigned to information and no-information conditions
but
Conditions A and B (see Section 6.19)
6.21 Names of Factors, Variables, and Effects
Capitalize names of derived variables within a factor or principal components
analysis. The words “factor” and “component” are not capitalized unless
followed by a numeral (see Section 6.19).
Big Five personality factors of Extraversion, Agreeableness, Openness to
Experience, Conscientiousness, and Neuroticism
Mealtime Behavior (Factor 4)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 269 ---

Do not capitalize effects or variables unless they appear with multiplication
signs. (Be careful not to use the term “factor” when you mean “effect” or
“variable,” e.g., in an interaction or analysis of variance.)
small age effect
sex, age, and weight variables
but
Sex × Age × Weight interaction
3 × 3 × 2 (Groups × Trials × Responses) design
2 (methods) × 2 (item types)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 270 ---

Italics
6.22 Use of Italics
Use italics for the following:
key terms or phrases, often accompanied by a definition
Mindfulness is defined as “the act of noticing new things, a process that
promotes flexible responding to the demands of the environment” (Pagnini
et al., 2016, p. 91).
Note: Use italics for a term or phrase only once, when it is most
appropriate to draw readers’ attention to the term or phrase; elsewhere,
the term should be in standard (nonitalic) type. For example, if a word is
used in a heading and then defined in the text that follows, italicize the
term as part of the definition rather than in the heading.
titles of books, reports, webpages, and other stand-alone works (see
Section 9.19)
Concise Guide to APA Style
titles of periodicals (see Section 9.25)
Cultural Diversity & Ethnic Minority Psychology
genera, species, and varieties
Cebus apella
letters used as statistical symbols or algebraic variables
Cohen’s d = 0.084
a/b = c/d
MSE
some test scores and scales
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 271 ---

Rorschach scores: F+%, Z
MMPI-2 scales: Hs, Pd
periodical volume numbers in reference lists
Neuropsychology, 30(5), 525–531.
anchors of a scale (but not the associated number)
ranged from 1 (poor) to 5 (excellent)
rated using a Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree to 5 = strongly agree)
the first use of a word, phrase, or abbreviation from another language
when readers may not be familiar with it; however, if the term appears in
a dictionary for the language in which you are writing (see Section 6.11),
do not use italics
gene symbols (see Section 6.31)
NR3C1
Do not use italics for the following:
titles of book series (e.g., the Harry Potter series)
the punctuation mark after an italicized word or phrase
What is plurality?
Note: Italicize a punctuation mark that is part of an italic element, such
as a colon, comma, or question mark within a book title, periodical title,
or heading.
Miles and Sweet’s (2017) book Chicken or Egg: Who Comes First?
addressed . . .
punctuation between elements of a reference list entry (e.g., the comma
after a volume and issue number, the period after a book title)
words, phrases, and abbreviations of foreign origin that appear in a
dictionary for the language in which you are writing (see Section 6.11)
a posteriori et al. a priori per se
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 272 ---

ad lib vis-à-vis fait accompli mens rea
force majeure zeitgeist
chemical terms
NaCl, LSD
trigonometric terms
sin, tan, log
nonstatistical subscripts to statistical symbols or mathematical expressions
Fmax
SA + SB
Greek letters
β, α, χ2
letters used as abbreviations
reaction time (RT)
gene names and gene proteins (see Section 6.31)
glucocorticoid receptor gene, GR protein
mere emphasis
Incorrect: It is important to bear in mind that this process is not proposed as a
stage theory of development.
Note: Italics for emphasis are acceptable if emphasis might otherwise be
lost or the material misread; in general, however, use syntax to provide
emphasis. See Section 8.31 for how to add emphasis in quoted material.
Italics and bold may be used for emphasis in tables, depending on the
requirements of the journal (e.g., to show factor loadings of a particular
size; see Table 7.14 in Section 7.21).
6.23 Reverse Italics
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 273 ---

When words that would normally be italicized appear within text that is
already italicized, those words should be set in standard (nonitalic) type,
referred to as reverse italicization. For example, when the title of a book
contains the title of another book, use standard type for the title within the
title. In the text, use title case for both titles; in the reference list entry, use
sentence case for both titles. In the following example, Marinelli and Mayer
wrote a book about Freud’s book The Interpretation of Dreams; Marinelli and
Mayer’s book title is italicized, and Freud’s book title within it is written in
standard type.
In text:
In Dreaming by the Book: Freud’s The Interpretation of Dreams and the History
of the Psychoanalytic Movement, Marinelli and Mayer (2003) explored . . .
In the reference list:
Marinelli, L., & Mayer, A. (2003). Dreaming by the book: Freud’s The
interpretation of dreams and the history of the psychoanalytic movement. Other
Press.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 274 ---

Abbreviations
An abbreviation is a shortened form of a word or phrase; abbreviations of
phrases are often composed of the first letter of each word of the phrase (i.e.,
acronym). To maximize clarity, use abbreviations sparingly and consider
readers’ familiarity with the abbreviation.
6.24 Use of Abbreviations
Although abbreviations can be useful for long, technical terms in scholarly
writing, communication is often garbled rather than clarified if an
abbreviation is unfamiliar to readers. In general, use an abbreviation if (a) it
is conventional and readers are likely to be more familiar with the
abbreviation than with the complete form and (b) considerable space can be
saved and cumbersome repetition avoided. For example, the abbreviations
“L” for large and “S” for small in a paper describing different sequences of
reward (LLSS or LSLS) would be effective and readily understood shortcuts.
In another paper, however, writing about the “L reward” and the “S reward”
might be both unnecessary and confusing. In most instances, abbreviating
experimental group names is ineffective because the abbreviations are not
adequately informative or easily recognizable; some are more cumbersome
than the full name. For the same reason, do not use the abbreviations “S,”
“E,” and “O” for subject, experimenter, and observer in the text.
Overuse. Sometimes the space saved by using abbreviations is not justified
by the time necessary for readers to master the meaning, as in the following
example:
The advantage of the LH was clear from the RT data, which reflected high
FP and FN rates for the RH.
Without abbreviations, the previous passage reads as follows:
The advantage of the left hand was clear from the reaction time data, which
reflected high false-positive and false-negative rates for the right hand.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 275 ---

Although there is no absolute limit for the use of abbreviations, writing is
generally easier to understand when most words are written out rather than
when overflowing with abbreviations.
Underuse. In general, if you abbreviate a term, use the abbreviation at least
three times in a paper. If you use the abbreviation only one or two times,
readers may have difficulty remembering what it means, so writing the term
out each time aids comprehension. However, a standard abbreviation for a
long, familiar term is clearer and more concise even if it is used fewer than
three times.
6.25 Definition of Abbreviations
In APA Style papers, do not define abbreviations that are listed as terms in
the dictionary (e.g., AIDS, IQ). Also do not define measurement
abbreviations (see Section 6.27), time abbreviations (see Section 6.28), Latin
abbreviations (see Section 6.29), or many statistical abbreviations (see
Section 6.44). Define all other abbreviations, even those that may be familiar
to your readers (e.g., “RT” for reaction time or “ANOVA” for analysis of
variance; see also Section 6.24). After you define an abbreviation, use only
the abbreviation; do not alternate between spelling out the term and
abbreviating it.
Definition in the Text. When you first use a term that you want to abbreviate
in the text, present both the full version of the term and the abbreviation.
When the full version of a term appears for the first time in a heading, do
not define the abbreviation in the heading; instead define the abbreviation
when the full version next appears. Use abbreviations in headings only if
the abbreviations have been previously defined in the text or if they are
listed as terms in the dictionary.
When the full version of a term first appears in a sentence in the text,
place the abbreviation in parentheses after it.
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
When the full version of a term first appears in parenthetical text, place
the abbreviation in square brackets after it. Do not use nested parentheses.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 276 ---

(i.e., attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder [ADHD])
If a citation accompanies an abbreviation, include the citation after the
abbreviation, separated with a semicolon. Do not use nested or back-to-
back parentheses.
Beck Depression Inventory–II (BDI-II; Beck et al., 1996)
(Beck Depression Inventory–II [BDI-II]; Beck et al., 1996)
Definition in Tables and Figures. Define abbreviations used in tables and
figures within each table and figure, even if the abbreviations have already
been defined in the text. The abbreviation can appear in parentheses after first
use of the term within the table or figure, including in the table or figure title,
or the definition can appear in a table or figure general note or a figure
legend. If an abbreviation is used in multiple tables and figures, define it in
each table or figure. Do not define abbreviations that do not appear in a table
or figure. Do not define or write out standard abbreviations for units of
measurement and statistics in a table or figure (see Sections 6.44 and 7.15).
6.26 Format of Abbreviations
Plural Forms. To form the plural of most abbreviations and statistical
symbols, add a lowercase “s” alone, without an apostrophe.
IQs  DOIs  URLs  Eds.  vols.  Ms  ps  ns  ESs
Note: To form the plural of the reference abbreviation for “page” (p.), write
“pp.” Do not add an “s” to make abbreviations for units of measurement
plural.
3 cm (not 3 cms)      24 hr (not 24 hrs)
Abbreviations Beginning a Sentence. Never begin a sentence with a
lowercase abbreviation (e.g., lb) or with a stand-alone symbol (e.g., α). Begin
a sentence with a symbol connected to a word (e.g., β-Endorphins) only when
necessary to avoid indirect or awkward phrasing. When a chemical
compound begins a sentence, capitalize the first letter of the word to which
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 277 ---

the symbol is connected; keep the locant, descriptor, or positional prefix (i.e.,
Greek, small capital, and italic letters and numerals) intact.
In running text:
L-methionine
N, N′-dimethylurea
γ-hydroxy-β-aminobutyric acid
At beginning of sentence:
L-Methionine
N, N′-Dimethylurea
γ-Hydroxy-β-aminobutyric acid
6.27 Unit of Measurement Abbreviations
Metrication. APA uses the metric system in its journals. If you used
instruments that record measurements in nonmetric units, report the
nonmetric units followed by the established metric equivalents in
parentheses.
Measurement in metric units:
The rods were spaced 19 mm apart.
Measurement in nonmetric units with the rounded metric equivalent:
The rod was 3 ft (0.91 m) long.
Presentation. Write out the full names of units of measurement that are not
accompanied by numeric values.
several kilograms  age in years  duration of hours  centimeters
Use abbreviations and symbols for units of measurement that are
accompanied by numeric values; do not make symbols or abbreviations of
units plural.
4 cm  30 kg  12 min  18 hr  22 °C
Also use the abbreviation or symbol in column and row (stub) headings of
tables to conserve space, even when the term appears without a numeric
value.
lag in ms
Do not define or spell out unit of measurement abbreviations, even the first
time they are used. See Table 6.4 for a list of abbreviations for common units
of measurement (for statistical symbols and abbreviations, including
percentages and money symbols, see Section 6.44).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 278 ---

Table 6.4 Abbreviations for Common Units of Measurement
Abbreviation Unit of measurement Abbreviation Unit of measurement
A ampere m meter
Å angstrom μg microgram
AC alternating current μm micrometer
Bq becquerel mA milliampere
°C degrees Celsius mEq milliequivalent
cc cubic centimeter meV million electron volts
cd candela mg milligram
Ci curie mi mile a
cm centimeter ml milliliter
cps cycles per second mm millimeter
dB decibel (specify scale) mM millimolar
DC direct current mmHg millimeters of mercury
deg/s degrees per second mmol millimole
dl deciliter mol mole
F farad mol wt molecular weight
°F degrees Fahrenheit a mph miles per hour a
ft foot a MΩ megohm
g gram N newton
g gravity ng nanogram
Gy gray nmol nanomole
H henry Ω ohm
Hz hertz oz ounce a
in. inch a Pa pascal
IU international unit ppm parts per million
J joule psi pounds per square inch a
K kelvin rpm revolutions per minute
kg kilogram S siemens
km kilometer Sv sievert
km/h kilometers per hour T tesla
kW kilowatt V volt
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 279 ---

L liter W watt
lb pound a Wb weber
lm lumen yd yard a
lx lux
Note. These abbreviations do not need to be defined when they are used in a paper.
a Include the metric unit equivalent in parentheses when using nonmetric units.
Capitalization and Spelling. In most cases, use lowercase letters for
symbols (e.g., kg), even in capitalized material. However, the following are
exceptions:
Symbols derived from the name of a person usually include uppercase
letters (e.g., Gy).
Symbols for prefixes that represent powers of 10 are usually written in
uppercase letters: exa (E), peta (P), tera (T), giga (G), and mega (M).
Use the symbol “L” for liter when it stands alone (e.g., 5 L, 0.3 mg/L)
because a lowercase “l” may be misread as the numeral 1 (use lowercase
“l” for fractions of a liter: 5 ml, 9 ng/dl).
Do not use a period after a symbol, except at the end of a sentence. An
exception is to include a period after the abbreviation for “inch” (in.), which
could be misread without the period.
Use a space between a symbol and the number to which it refers (e.g.,
degrees, minutes, and seconds). An exception is the measure of angles, in
which case the symbol is written without a space after the measurement.
4.5 m  6 hr  12 °C  but  45° angle
Repeated Units of Measurement. Do not repeat abbreviated units of
measurement when expressing multiple amounts.
16–30 kHz  0.3, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/dl
When reporting related statistics, such as means and standard deviations,
report the unit with the main statistic but do not repeat it for the related
statistic(s) when the unit remains the same.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 280 ---

Correct: (M = 8.7 years, SD = 2.3)
Incorrect: (M = 8.7 years, SD = 2.3 years)
Compound Units. Use a centered dot between the symbols of a compound
term formed by the multiplication of units.
Pa • s
Use a space between the full names of units of a compound unit formed by
the multiplication of units; do not use a centered dot.
pascal second
6.28 Time Abbreviations
To prevent misreading, do not abbreviate the words “day,” “week,” “month,”
and “year,” even when they are accompanied by numeric values. Do
abbreviate the words “hour,” “minute,” “second,” “millisecond,”
“nanosecond,” and any other division of the second when they are
accompanied by numeric values.
Term Abbreviation Example
hour hr 6 hr
minute min 30 min
second s 5 s
millisecond ms 2.65 ms
nanosecond ns 90 ns
6.29 Latin Abbreviations
Use the following standard Latin abbreviations only in parenthetical material;
in the narrative, use the translation of the Latin term. In both cases, punctuate
as if the abbreviation were spelled out in the language in which you are
writing.
Latin abbreviation Translation
cf. compare
e.g.
, for example,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 281 ---

, etc. , and so forth
i.e., that is,
viz., namely,
vs. versus or against
Exceptions: Use the abbreviation “v.” (for “versus”) in the title or name of a
court case in the reference list and in all in-text citations (see Section 11.4).
Use the Latin abbreviation “et al.” (which means “and others”) in both
narrative and parenthetical citations (see Section 8.17). (The abbreviation
“ibid.” is not used in APA Style.)
6.30 Chemical Compound Abbreviations
Chemical compounds may be expressed by the common name or the
chemical name. If you prefer to use the common name, provide the chemical
name in parentheses on first mention. Avoid expressing compounds with
chemical formulas because these are usually less informative to readers and
have a high likelihood of being typed or typeset incorrectly (e.g., “aspirin” or
“salicylic acid,” not “C 9H8O4”). If names of compounds include Greek
letters, retain the letters as symbols and do not write them out (e.g., “β
carotene,” not “beta carotene”). If a compound name containing a Greek
letter appears at the beginning of a sentence, capitalize the first letter of the
word to which the symbol is connected (see Section 6.26).
Long names of organic compounds are often abbreviated. If the
abbreviation is listed as a term in a dictionary (see Section 6.25; e.g.,
“NADP” for “nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate”), you do not
need to write it out in full on first use.
Concentrations. If you express a solution as a percentage concentration
instead of as a molar concentration, specify the percentage as a weight-per-
volume ratio (wt/vol), a volume ratio (vol/vol), or a weight ratio (wt/wt) of
solute to solvent. The higher the concentration, the more ambiguous the
expression is as a percentage. Specifying the ratio is especially necessary for
concentrations of alcohol, glucose, and sucrose. Specifying the salt form is
also essential for precise reporting of d-amphetamine HCl or d-amphetamine
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 282 ---

SO4 (expression of a chemical name in combination with a formula is
acceptable in this case).
12% (vol/vol) ethyl alcohol solution
1% (wt/vol) saccharin solution
Routes of Administration. Abbreviate a route of administration when it is
paired with a number-and-unit combination. Do not use periods with
abbreviations for routes of administration: icv = intracerebral ventricular, im
= intramuscular, ip = intraperitoneal, iv = intravenous, sc = subcutaneous,
and so forth.
anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (90 mg/kg ip)
two subcutaneous injections (not sc injections)
6.31 Gene and Protein Name Abbreviations
Writing about genes can be challenging. Each gene has an official full name
and symbol, designated by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee, that
describe the gene’s function or location and often the protein it produces. Use
standard gene names found in gene databases such as those from the National
Center for Biotechnology Information (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene)
and the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee
(https://www.genenames.org/). Gene names are organism specific (e.g.,
human, mouse), so use an appropriate database. Additionally, the same gene
may be known by an “alias” (or alternate scientific, informal, and/or
historical) name and symbol. For example, the glucocorticoid receptor gene,
which is highly implicated in the response to stress, has the official name
“nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1”; has the official symbol
NR3C1; and produces GR proteins; it is also commonly known as the
“glucocorticoid receptor,” abbreviated “GR.” If a gene is known by more
than one name or symbol, select one presentation and use it consistently; the
first time you mention a gene in your paper, you may also note the other
name and/or symbol by which it is known to alert readers who may not be
familiar with the designation you chose. Also state whether you are referring
to the gene or to its protein, and use appropriate terminology (e.g., use
“expression” when discussing genes and “levels” when discussing proteins).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 283 ---

Do not italicize gene names written out in full (e.g., corticotropin-releasing
hormone) and gene proteins (e.g., CRH). However, do italicize gene symbols
(e.g., CRH). It is not required to abbreviate the full name of a gene and to use
its symbol; follow the guidelines in Section 6.24 if you are considering using
an abbreviation for a gene. For further discussion of gene names and
formatting, see Wain et al. (2002) and the International Committee on
Standardized Genetic Nomenclature for Mice and Rat Genome and
Nomenclature Committee (2018).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 284 ---

Numbers
In general, use numerals to express numbers 10 and above and words to
express numbers below 10. Consider on a case-by-case basis whether to
follow the general guideline or if an exception applies.
6.32 Numbers Expressed in Numerals
Use numerals to express the following:
numbers 10 and above throughout the paper, including the abstract (for
exceptions, see Sections 6.33–6.34) and both cardinal and ordinal
numbers (see Section 6.35)
15th trial
13 lists
12 models
200 participants
10th-grade students
105 stimulus words
numbers that immediately precede a unit of measurement
a 5-mg dose with 10.5 cm of
numbers that represent statistical or mathematical functions, fractional or
decimal quantities, percentages, ratios, and percentiles and quartiles
multiplied by 5
3 times as many
a ratio of 16:1
0.33 of the sample
more than 5%
the 5th percentile
numbers that represent time, dates, ages, scores and points on a scale,
exact sums of money, and numerals as numerals
5 days
4 decades
12:30 a.m.
1 hr 34 min
2-year-olds
ages 65–70 years
about 8 months
was 2 years old
scored 4 on a 7-point scale
the numeral 6 on the keyboard
approximately 3 years ago
received $5 in compensation
numbers that denote a specific place in a numbered series and parts of
books and tables (the noun before the number is also capitalized when it
denotes a specific place in a series; see Section 6.19); however, when the
number precedes the noun, the usual guidelines for number use apply
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 285 ---

Number after a noun Number before a noun
Year 1 the 1st year
Grade 4, Grade 10 the fourth grade, the 10th grade
Items 3 and 5 the third and fifth items
Question 2 the second question
Table 2, Figure 5 the second table, the fifth figure
Column 8, Row 7 the eighth column, the seventh row
Chapter 1, Chapter 12 the first chapter, the 12th chapter
Exceptions: Do not capitalize the abbreviations for page(s) or paragraph(s), even when they are followed by a
numeral (e.g., p. 3, pp. 2–5, para. 9, paras. 1–4).
6.33 Numbers Expressed in Words
Use words to express the following:
numbers zero through nine (except as described in Sections 6.32 and 6.34)
in the text, including the abstract
any number that begins a sentence, title, or heading (when possible,
reword the sentence to avoid beginning with a number)
Forty-eight percent of the sample showed an increase; 2% showed no change.
Twelve students improved, and 12 students did not improve.
common fractions
one fifth of the class two-thirds majority
universally accepted usage
Twelve Apostles Five Pillars of Islam
6.34 Combining Numerals and Words to Express Numbers
Use a combination of numerals and words to express back-to-back numerical
modifiers.
2 two-way interactions ten 7-point scales
However, if this makes the text more difficult for readers, consider rewording
the sentence.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 286 ---

6.35 Ordinal Numbers
Treat ordinal numbers as you would cardinal numbers.
Ordinal Cardinal base
second-order factor two orders
fourth grade, 10th grade four grades, 10 grades
first item of the 75th trial one item, 75 trials
first and third groups one group, three groups
3rd year 3 years
The suffixes of ordinal numbers can be presented with or without a
superscript (e.g., either 4th or 4 th), but be consistent in presentation
throughout your paper.
6.36 Decimal Fractions
Use a zero before the decimal point in numbers that are less than 1 when the
statistic can exceed 1.
t(20) = 0.86
Cohen’s d = 0.70
F(1, 27) = 0.57
0.48 cm
Do not use a zero before a decimal fraction when the statistic cannot be
greater than 1 (e.g., correlations, proportions, levels of statistical
significance).
r(24) = –.43, p = .028
The number of decimal places to use in reporting the results of experiments
and data-analytic manipulations should be governed by the following
principle: Round as much as possible while considering prospective use and
statistical precision. As a general rule, fewer decimal digits are easier to
comprehend than are more digits; therefore, it is usually better to round to
two decimal places or to rescale the measurement (in which case effect sizes
should be presented in the same metric). For instance, a difference in
distances that must be carried to four decimals to be seen when scaled in
meters can be more effectively illustrated in millimeters, which would require
only a few decimal digits to illustrate the same difference.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 287 ---

When properly scaled, most data can be effectively presented with two
decimal digits of accuracy. Report correlations, proportions, and inferential
statistics such as t, F, and chi-square to two decimals. When reporting data
measured on integer scales (as with many questionnaires), report means and
standard deviations to one decimal place (as group measures, they are more
stable than individual scores). Report exact p values (e.g., p = .031) to two or
three decimal places. However, report p values less than .001 as p < .001. The
tradition of reporting p values in the form of p < .10, p < .05, p < .01, and so
forth was appropriate in a time when only limited tables of critical values
were available. However, in tables the “p <” notation may be necessary for
clarity (see Section 7.14). For guidance on the types of statistics to report in
your paper, see the reporting standards for quantitative methods and results
(Sections 3.6–3.7).
6.37 Roman Numerals
If Roman numerals are part of an established terminology, do not change
them to Arabic numerals. For example, use “Type II error,” not “Type 2
error.” Use Arabic numerals for routine seriation (e.g., Step 1, Experiment 2,
Study 3).
6.38 Commas in Numbers
Use commas between groups of three digits in most figures of 1,000 or more.
Some exceptions are as follows:
Category Example of exception
page numbers page 1029
binary digits 00110010
serial numbers 290466960
degrees of temperature 3414 °C
acoustic frequency designations 2000 Hz
degrees of freedom F(24, 1000)
6.39 Plurals of Numbers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 288 ---

To form the plurals of numbers, whether expressed as numerals or as words,
add “s” or “es” alone, without an apostrophe.
twos and sixes   the 1960s   30s and 40s
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 289 ---

Statistical and Mathematical Copy
APA Style for presenting statistical and mathematical copy reflects (a) the
standards of content and form agreed on in the field and (b) the requirements
of clear communication. The Publication Manual addresses standards for
presentation only; it does not provide guidance on how to choose statistics,
conduct analyses, or interpret results. Consult a statistics reference work or a
statistician for help if needed.
6.40 Selecting Effective Presentation
Statistical and mathematical copy can be presented in text, in tables, and/or in
figures. In deciding which approach to take, follow these general guidelines:
If you need to present three or fewer numbers, first try using a sentence.
If you need to present four to 20 numbers, first try using a table.
If you need to present more than 20 numbers, first try using a figure.
Select the mode of presentation that optimizes readers’ understanding of the
data. Detailed displays that allow fine-grained understanding of a data set
may be more appropriate to include in supplemental materials (see Section
2.15) than in the print version of an article. However, editors publish tables
and figures at their discretion; they may also request new tables and figures.
6.41 References for Statistics
Do not provide a reference for a statistic in common use (e.g., Cohen’s d);
this convention applies to most statistics used in journal articles. Provide a
reference when (a) less common statistics are used, (b) a statistic is used in an
unconventional or controversial way, or (c) the statistic itself is the focus of
the paper.
6.42 Formulas
Do not provide a formula for a statistic in common use; however, provide a
formula when the statistic or mathematical expression is new, rare, or
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 290 ---

essential to the paper. The presentation of equations is described in Sections
6.46 and 6.47.
6.43 Statistics in Text
When reporting inferential statistics (e.g., t tests, F tests, chi-square tests, and
associated effect sizes and confidence intervals), include sufficient
information to allow readers to fully understand the analyses conducted. The
data supplied, preferably in the text but possibly in supplemental materials
depending on the magnitude of the data arrays, should allow readers to
confirm the basic reported analyses (e.g., cell means, standard deviations,
sample sizes, correlations) and should enable interested readers to construct
some effect-size estimates and confidence intervals beyond those supplied in
the paper per se. In the case of multilevel data, present summary statistics for
each level of aggregation. What constitutes sufficient information depends on
the analytic approach reported.
F ratios:
For immediate recognition, the omnibus test of the main effect of sentence
format was significant, F(2, 177) = 6.30, p = .002, est ω2 = .07.
t values:
The one-degree-of-freedom contrast of primary interest was significant at the
specified p < .05 level, t(177) = 3.51, p < .001, d = 0.65, 95% CI [0.35, 0.95].
Hierarchical and other sequential regression statistics:
High school GPA predicted college mathematics performance, R 2 = .12, F(1,
148) = 20.18, p < .001, 95% CI [.02, .22].
If you present descriptive statistics in a table or figure, do not repeat them in
the text, although you should (a) mention the table in which the statistics can
be found in the text and (b) emphasize particular data in the text when they
aid in the interpretation of the findings.
When enumerating a series of similar statistics, be certain that the relation
between the statistics and their referents is clear. Words such as
“respectively” and “in order” can clarify this relationship.
Means (with standard deviations in parentheses) for Trials 1–4 were 2.43
(0.50), 2.59 (1.21), 2.68 (0.39), and 2.86 (0.12), respectively.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 291 ---

When reporting confidence intervals, use the format 95% CI [LL, UL], where
LL is the lower limit of the confidence interval and UL is the upper limit.
Every report of a confidence interval must clearly state the level of
confidence. However, when confidence intervals are repeated in a series or
within the same paragraph, the level of confidence (e.g., 95%) has remained
unchanged, and the meaning is clear, do not repeat “95% CI.”
95% CIs [5.62, 8.31], [–2.43, 4.31], and [–4.29, –3.11], respectively
When a confidence interval follows the report of a point estimate, do not
repeat the units of measurement.
M = 30.5 cm, 99% CI [18.0, 43.0]
6.44 Statistical Symbols and Abbreviations
Symbols and abbreviations are often used for statistics (e.g., “mean” is
abbreviated “M”). Table 6.5 contains common statistical abbreviations and
symbols.
Do not define symbols or abbreviations that represent statistics (e.g., M,
SD, F, t, df, p, N, n, OR, r) or any abbreviations or symbols composed of
Greek letters (e.g., α, β, χ2) in Table 6.5.
However, define the other abbreviations in Table 6.5 (e.g., AIC, ANOVA,
BIC, CFA, CI, NFI, RMSEA, SEM) when they are used anywhere in your
paper (see Sections 6.25 and 7.14–7.15).
Table 6.5 Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols
Abbreviation Unit of measurement
English character set
a in item response theory, the slope parameter
AIC Akaike information criterion
ANCOVA analysis of covariance
ANOVA analysis of variance
AVE average value explained
b, bi in regression and multiple regression analyses, estimated values of raw
(unstandardized) regression coefficients; in item response theory, the difficulty-severity
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 292 ---

parameter
b*, bi* estimated values of standardized regression coefficients in regression and multiple
regression analyses
BIC, aBIC Bayesian information criterion, sample-size-adjusted Bayesian information criterion
CAT computerized adaptive testing
CDF cumulative distribution function
CFA confirmatory factor analysis
CFI comparative fit index
CI confidence interval
d Cohen’s measure of sample effect size for comparing two sample means
d' discriminability, a measure of sensitivity in signal detection theory
df degrees of freedom
DIF differential item functioning
EFA exploratory factor analysis
EM expectation maximization
ES effect size
f frequency
fe expected frequency
fo observed frequency
F F distribution; Fisher’s F ratio
F(ν1, ν2) F with ν 1 and ν2 degrees of freedom
Fcrit critical value for statistical significance in an F test
Fmax Hartley’s test of homogeneity of variance
FDR false discovery rate
FIML full information maximum likelihood
g Hedges’s measure of effect size
GFI goodness-of-fit index
GLM generalized linear model
GLS generalized least squares
H0 null hypothesis, hypothesis under test
H1 (or Ha) alternative hypothesis
HLM hierarchical linear model(ing)
HSD Tukey’s honestly significant difference
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 293 ---

IRT item response theory
k coefficient of alienation; number of studies in a meta-analysis; number of levels in an
experimental design or individual study
k2 coefficient of nondetermination
KR20 Kuder–Richardson reliability index
LGC latent growth curve
LL lower limit (as of a CI)
LR likelihood ratio
LSD least significant difference
M (or X̄ ) sample mean; arithmetic average
MANOVA multivariate analysis of variance
MANCOVA multivariate analysis of covariance
MCMC Markov chain Monte Carlo
Mdn median
MLE maximum likelihood estimator; maximum likelihood estimate
MLM multilevel model(ing)
MS mean square
MSE mean square error
n number of cases (generally in a subsample)
N total number of cases
NFI, NNFI normed fit index, nonnormed fit index
ns not statistically significant
OLS ordinary least squares
OR odds ratio
p probability; probability of a success in a binary trial
prep probability a replication would give a result with the same sign as the original result
PDF probability density function
q probability of a failure in a binary trial; 1 – p
Q test of homogeneity of effect sizes
r estimate of the Pearson product–moment correlation coefficient
rab.c partial correlation of a and b with the effect of c removed
ra(b.c) partial (or semipartial) correlation of a and b with the effect of c removed from b
r2
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 294 ---

coefficient of determination; measure of strength of relationship; estimate of the Pearson
product–moment correlation squared
rb biserial correlation
rpb point biserial correlation
rs Spearman rank-order correlation
R multiple correlation
R2 multiple correlation squared; measure of strength of association
RMSEA root-mean-square error of approximation
s
sample standard deviation (denominator 
 )
S sample variance–covariance matrix
s2 sample variance (unbiased estimator) – denominator n – 1
S2 sample variance (biased estimator) – denominator n
SD standard deviation
SE standard error
SEM standard error of measurement; standard error of the mean
SEM structural equation model(ing)
SRMR standardized root-mean-square residual
SS sum of squares
t Student’s t distribution; a statistical test based on the Student t distribution; the sample
value of the t-test statistic
T2 Hotelling’s multivariate test for the equality of the mean vector in two multi-variate
populations
Tk generic effect-size estimate
TLI Tucker–Lewis index
U Mann–Whitney test statistic
UL upper limit (as of a CI)
V Pillai–Bartlett multivariate trace criterion; Cramér’s measure of association in
contingency tables
wk fixed-effects weights
wk* random-effects weights
W Kendall’s coefficient of concordance and its estimate
WLS weighted least squares
z a standardized score; the value of a statistic divided by its standard error
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 295 ---

Greek character set
α (alpha) in statistical hypothesis testing, the probability of making a Type I error; Cronbach’s
index of internal consistency (a form of reliability)
β (beta) in statistical hypothesis testing, the probability of making a Type II error (1 – β denotes
statistical power); population values of regression coefficients (with appropriate
subscripts as needed)
B (capital
beta)
in SEM, matrix of regression coefficients among dependent constructs
Γ (capital
gamma)
Goodman–Kruskal’s index of relationship; Γ, matrix of regression coefficients between
independent and dependent constructs in SEM
δ (delta) population value of Cohen’s effect size; noncentrality parameter in hypothesis testing
and noncentral distributions
Δ (capital
delta)
increment of change
ε2 (epsilon-
squared)
measure of strength of relationship in analysis of variance
η2 (eta-
squared)
measure of strength of relationship
θk (theta k) generic effect size in meta-analysis
Θ (capital
theta)
Roy’s multivariate test criterion; Θ, matrix of covariances among measurement errors in
SEM
κ (kappa) Cohen’s measure of agreement corrected for chance agreement
λ (lambda) element of a factor loading matrix; Goodman–Kruskal measure of predictability
Λ (capital
lambda)
Wilks’s multivariate test criterion; Λ, matrix of factor loadings in SEM
μ (mu) population mean; expected value
ν (nu) degrees of freedom
ρ (rho) population product–moment correlation
ρI (rho I) population intraclass correlation
σ (sigma) population standard deviation
σ2 (sigma-
squared)
population variance
Σ (capital
sigma)
population variance–covariance matrix
τ (tau) Kendall’s rank-order correlation coefficient; Hotelling’s multivariate trace criterion
ϕ (phi) standard normal probability density function
Φ (capital
phi)
measure of association in contingency tables; standard normal cumulative distribution
function; Φ, matrix of covariances among independent constructs in SEM
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 296 ---

χ2 (chi-
squared)
the chi-square distribution; a statistical test based on the chi-square distribution; the
sample value of the chi-square test statistic
Ψ (capital
psi)
in statistical hypothesis testing, a statistical contrast; Ψ, matrix of covariances among
prediction errors in SEM
ω2 (omega-
squared)
strength of a statistical relationship
Mathematical symbols
| a | absolute value of a
∑ (capital
sigma)
summation
Note. It is acceptable to use the form est(θ) or 
 to indicate an estimator or estimate of the parameter θ.
Some terms are used as both abbreviations and symbols. Use the abbreviation
when referring to the concept and the symbol when specifying a numeric
value. The symbol form will usually be either a non-English letter or an
italicized English letter. Most abbreviations can be turned into symbols (for
use when reporting numerical estimates) by simply italicizing the
abbreviation.
Note: Some quantitative approaches (e.g., structural equation modeling)
use multiple notation systems; any notation system is acceptable as long as
it is used consistently. If you use a notation system other than the one
shown in Table 6.5, identify it for readers. Do not mix notation systems
within a paper.
As with all aspects of paper preparation, ensure that there are no ambiguities
that could lead to errors in final production, particularly with mathematical
and statistical symbols, unusual characters, and complex alignments (e.g.,
subscripts, superscripts). Avoid misunderstandings and corrections by
preparing mathematical copy carefully.
Symbols Versus Words. When using a statistical term in narrative text, use
the term, not the symbol. For example, state “the means were” not “the Ms
were.” When using a statistical term in conjunction with a mathematical
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 297 ---

operator, use the symbol or abbreviation. For example, write “(M = 7.74),”
not “(mean = 7.74).”
Symbols for Population Versus Sample Statistics. Population parameters
are usually represented by Greek letters. Most estimators are represented by
italicized Latin letters. For example, the population correlation would be
represented as ρ, and the estimator would be represented as r; est(ρ) and ⍴̂ are
also acceptable. Some test statistics are represented by italicized Latin letters
(e.g., t and F), and a few are represented by Greek letters (e.g., Γ).
Symbols for Number of Subjects. Use an uppercase, italicized N to
designate the number of members in the total sample (e.g., N = 135). Use a
lowercase, italicized n to designate the number of members in a limited
portion or subsample of the total sample (e.g., n = 80 in the treatment group).
Symbols for Percentage and Currency. Use the percent symbol and
currency symbols only when they are accompanied by a numeral; also use
them in table headings and in figure labels and legends to conserve space.
Use the word “percentage” or the name of the currency when a number is not
given. Repeat the symbol for a range of percentages or quantities of currency.
18%–20%
determined the percentage
$10.50, £10, €9.95, ¥100–¥500
in Australian dollars, in U.S. dollars
Standard, Bold, and Italic Type. Statistical symbols and mathematical
information in papers are prepared with three different type styles: standard
(roman), bold, and italic. The same type style is used in text, tables, and
figures.
Use standard type for Greek letters, subscripts and superscripts that
function as identifiers (i.e., are not variables, as in the subscript “girls” in
the example that follows), and abbreviations that are not variables (e.g.,
log, GLM, WLS).
μgirls, α, βi
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 298 ---

Use bold type for symbols for vectors and matrices.
V, Σ
Use italic type for all other statistical symbols.
N, Mx, df, SSE, MSE, t, F
On occasion, an element may serve as both an abbreviation and a symbol
(e.g., SD); in this case, use the type style that reflects the function of the
element (see Table 6.5).
6.45 Spacing, Alignment, and Punctuation for Statistics
Space mathematical copy as you would space words: a+b=c is as difficult to
read as wordswithoutspacing. Instead, type a + b = c. For a minus sign
indicating subtraction, use a space on each side of the sign (e.g., z – y = x);
for a minus sign indicating a negative value, use a space before but not after
the sign (e.g., –8.25).
Note: A minus sign is a different typographical character than a hyphen (it is
longer and slightly higher); your word-processing program has options for
inserting a minus sign in your paper.
Align signs and symbols carefully. Use the subscript and superscript
functions of your word-processing program. In most cases, type subscripts
first and then superscripts (x a2). However, place a subscript or superscript
such as the symbol for prime right next to its letter or symbol (x' a). Because
APA prefers to align subscripts and superscripts one under the other
(“stacking”) for ease of reading instead of setting one to the right of the other
(“staggering”), if you are publishing an article that includes statistics in an
APA journal, your subscripts and superscripts will be stacked when they are
typeset. If subscripts and superscripts should not be stacked, indicate this in a
cover letter or in the manuscript.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 299 ---

Presentation of Equations
Punctuate all equations, whether they are in the line of text or displayed (i.e.,
typed on a separate line), to conform to their place in the syntax of the
sentence (see the period following Equation 3 in Section 6.47). If your paper
will be typeset and you have an equation that exceeds the column width of a
typeset page, indicate in the accepted manuscript where breaks would be
acceptable.
6.46 Equations in Text
Place short and simple equations, such as a = [(1 + b)/x]1/2, in the line of text.
To present fractions in the line of text, use a slash (/). To make the order of
operations in an equation visually unambiguous, use parentheses, square
brackets, and braces (together referred to as “fences”). Use parentheses first
to enclose material; use square brackets to enclose material already in
parentheses; and use braces (curly brackets) to enclose material already in
square brackets and parentheses: first ( ), then [( )], and finally {[( )]}.
Equations in the line of text should not project above or below the line; for
example, the equation at the beginning of this section would be difficult to set
in the line of text if it were in this form:
Instead, such equations are displayed on their own line (see Section 6.47).
6.47 Displayed Equations
Display simple equations if they must be numbered for later reference.
Display all complex equations. Number all displayed equations
consecutively, with the number in parentheses near the right margin of the
page.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 300 ---

When referring to numbered equations, include the full word “equation”
(e.g., “Equation 3” or “the third equation,” not “Eq. 3”).
6.48 Preparing Statistical and Mathematical Copy for Publication
Display all mathematical signs and symbols in typed form, when possible. If
a character cannot be produced by your word-processing program, insert it as
an image. Type fences (i.e., parentheses, brackets, and braces), uppercase and
lowercase letters, punctuation, subscripts and superscripts, and all other
elements exactly as you want them to appear in the published article.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 301 ---

Lists
6.49 List Guidelines
Just as heading structure alerts readers to the order of ideas in a paper,
seriation—that is, lists—helps readers understand a related set of key points
within a sentence or paragraph. In a series, all items should be syntactically
and conceptually parallel (see Section 4.24 for a more detailed discussion of
parallelism).
When a list within a sentence contains three or more items, use a serial
comma before the final item (see also Section 6.3).
Participants were similar with respect to age, gender
, and ethnicity.
However, if any item in a list of three or more items already contains
commas, use semicolons instead of commas between the items (see Section
6.4).
We were interested in how students describe their gender identities and
expressions
; their perceptions of emotional and physical safety on campus,
including whether and how such perceptions impact their gender
expression
; and their perceptions of trans-affirming versus trans-negative
reactions among fellow students and faculty.
6.50 Lettered Lists
Within a sentence or paragraph narrative, identify elements in a series with
lowercase letters in parentheses when doing so will help readers understand
the separate, parallel items in a complex list. Lettered lists may also be used
to draw attention to the items—but not as much attention as a numbered or
bulleted list. Use commas or semicolons between items as described in
Section 6.49.
Our sample organization used a waterfall model that featured the following
sequential stages: (a) requirements analysis, (b) specification, (c)
architecture, (d) design, and (e) deployment.
We tested three groups: (a) low scorers, who scored fewer than 20 points;
(b) moderate scorers, who scored between 20 and 50 points; and (c) high
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 302 ---

scorers, who scored more than 50 points.
6.51 Numbered Lists
Use a numbered list to display complete sentences or paragraphs in a series
(e.g., itemized conclusions, steps in a procedure). Use a lettered or bulleted
list rather than a numbered list if the items are phrases. Use the numbered list
function of your word-processing program to create the numbered list; this
will automatically indent the list as well. Select the option for an Arabic
numeral followed by a period but not enclosed in or followed by parentheses.
Capitalize the first word after the number (and the first word in any
subsequent sentence), and end each sentence with a period or other
punctuation as appropriate.
We addressed the following research questions:
1. What research methodologies are used to examine the effects of
cultural competency training?
2. How are psychologists trained to be culturally competent?
3. How are training outcomes assessed?
4. What are the outcomes of cultural competency training?
6.52 Bulleted Lists
The use of a numbered list may connote an unwanted or unwarranted ordinal
position (e.g., chronology, importance, priority) among the items. To achieve
the same effect without the implication of ordinality, use bullets to identify
the items in the series. Use the bulleted list function of your word-processing
program to create the bulleted list; this will automatically indent the list as
well. Symbols such as small circles, squares, dashes, and so forth may be
used for the bullets. When an article accepted for publication is typeset, the
bullet symbol will be changed to the style used by that journal.
Items That Are Complete Sentences. If bulleted list items are complete
sentences, begin each sentence with a capital letter and finish it with a period
or other end punctuation.
There are several ways in which psychologists could apply social-media-
driven methods to improve their work:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 303 ---

Social psychologists could use these methods to improve research on
emotional experiences.
Community psychologists could use these methods to improve population
assessment at the city level.
Clinical psychologists could use these methods to improve assessment or
treatment.
Items That Are Phrases. If bulleted list items are phrases or sentence
fragments (i.e., not full sentences), begin each bulleted item with a lowercase
letter (for exceptions, such as proper nouns, see Sections 6.14–6.21). There
are two options for punctuating a bulleted list in which the items are phrases
or fragments.
Phrases Without End Punctuation. The first option is to use no punctuation
after the bulleted items (including the final one), which may be better when
the items are shorter and simpler.
Some strategies used by faculty of color in the United States for survival
and success on the tenure track include the following:
learning the rules of the game
being aware of who possesses power
working doubly hard
emphasizing one’s strengths and establishing some authority
finding White allies (Lutz et al., 2013; Turner et al., 2011)
Phrases With End Punctuation. The second option is to insert punctuation
after the bulleted items as though the bullets were not there, following the
guidelines in Sections 6.3 and 6.4 for comma and semicolon usage; this
option may be better when the items are longer or more complex.
Adolescents may crave the opportunities for peer connection that social
media affords because it allows them to
communicate privately with individuals or publicly with a larger audience,
seek affirmation by posting pictures or commentary and receiving likes or
comments,
see how their numbers of friends and followers compare with those of their
peers, and
monitor who is doing what with whom by seeing how many peers like and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 304 ---

comment on their posts and comparing the feedback they get with what
others received (Underwood & Ehrenreich, 2017).
Items That Contain Both Phrases and Sentences. When bulleted items
contain both phrases and sentences (as with a list of definitions in a glossary),
various formats are possible, but the presentation should be consistent and
logical. One approach is to lowercase the word or phrase at the beginning of
the bullet in bold, followed by a colon. If what follows the colon is a sentence
fragment, lowercase the first word after the colon.
creativity: the ability to produce or develop original work, theories,
techniques, or thoughts.
Use a period after a sentence fragment when an additional sentence follows
the fragment; otherwise, the punctuation after the fragment is optional.
 goal: the end state toward which a human or nonhuman animal is striving.
It can be identified by observing that an organism ceases or changes its
behavior upon attaining this state.
If what follows the colon is a complete sentence, capitalize the first word
after the colon and end the sentence with a period or other end punctuation.
problem solving: Individuals use problem solving to attempt to overcome
difficulties, achieve plans that move them from a starting situation to a
desired goal, or reach conclusions through the use of higher mental
functions, such as reasoning and creative thinking.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 305 ---

7
TABLES AND FIGURES
Tables and figures enable authors to present a large amount of information
efficiently and to make their data more comprehensible. Tables usually show
numerical values (e.g., means and standard deviations) or textual information
(e.g., lists of stimulus words, responses from participants) arranged in an
orderly display of columns and rows. A figure may be a chart, graph,
photograph, drawing, or any other illustration or nontextual depiction. At
times, the boundary between tables and figures may be unclear; in general,
tables are characterized by a row–column structure, and any type of
illustration or image other than a table is considered a figure. In this chapter,
we discuss the purpose of tables and figures; principles for designing,
preparing, placing, and reproducing them; and guidelines for creating and
formatting tables and figures in APA Style, with examples of various types.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 306 ---

General Guidelines for Tables and Figures
7.1 Purpose of Tables and Figures
The primary purpose of any table or figure is to facilitate readers’
understanding of the work. For example, tables and figures can be used to
summarize information (e.g., a theoretical model, qualities of studies
included in a meta-analysis), to present the results of exploratory data
analysis or data mining techniques (e.g., a factor analysis), to estimate some
statistic or function (e.g., a nomograph), or to share full trial-level data (for
more on data sharing, see Section 1.14). Although tables and figures attract
attention, they should not be used for mere decoration in an academic paper.
Instead, every table and figure should serve a purpose.
7.2 Design and Preparation of Tables and Figures
When preparing a table or figure, first determine the purpose of the display
and the relative importance of that purpose (see Section 7.1); then, select a
format that supports that purpose (see Sections 7.21 and 7.36 for sample
tables and figures, respectively). For example, if the purpose is to illustrate a
theoretical model, a chart is most likely the best option. Sometimes, multiple
approaches are possible; for example, if your goal is to present group scores,
a table would allow readers to see each group’s exact scores, whereas a figure
would emphasize similarities or differences between groups. When possible,
use a standard, or canonical, form for a table or figure (examples are shown
in Sections 7.21 and 7.36).
Design tables and figures with readers in mind. Communicate findings
clearly while also creating attractive visual displays. Prepare tables and
figures with the same care as the text of the paper; changes in text often
demand changes in tables and figures, and a mismatch between data
presented in the text versus in tables and figures may result in the need for a
correction notice for published articles or in a lower grade for student
assignments if the error is not corrected before publication or submission,
respectively. Use the following principles when designing tables and figures:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 307 ---

Label all columns in tables.
Label all elements in figure images (e.g., label the axes of a graph).
Place items that are to be compared next to each other.
Place labels next to the elements they are labeling.
In figure images, use sans serif fonts that are large enough to be read
without magnification.
Design the table or figure so it can be understood on its own (meaning
readers do not have to refer to the text to understand it). Define
abbreviations used in the table or figure even if they are also defined in
the text (see Section 7.15 for some exceptions).
Tables or figures designated as supplemental materials should also contain
enough information to be understood on their own.
Avoid decorative flourishes, which are distracting and can interfere with
readers’ comprehension; instead, ensure that every element supports the
goal of effective communication.
7.3 Graphical Versus Textual Presentation
Be selective in choosing how many tables and figures to include in your
paper. Readers may lose track of your message if there are a large number of
tables and figures; for example, if many tables and figures accompany a small
amount of text, it can cause problems with page layout for published articles.
Moreover, graphical presentation is not always optimal for effective
communication. For example, the results of a single statistical significance
test or a few group means and standard deviations can be presented in text.
The one-way ANOVA, F(1, 136) = 4.86, MSE = 3.97, p = .029, η 2 = .03,
demonstrated . . .
Scores on the insomnia measure (M = 4.08, SD = 0.22) were . . .
A table or figure is an effective choice to present the results of multiple
statistical tests or many descriptive statistics (e.g., when reporting the results
of numerous analyses of variance [ANOVAs] or summarizing participant
demographic data). It may also be possible to combine several smaller tables
or figures with similar content into one larger table or figure. Consider how
the table or figure augments or supplements the text. For example, when the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 308 ---

components of a theoretical model are discussed in the text, a figure may help
summarize the model; the value of the figure is the visual summary.
However, tables or figures that are redundant with the text may be
unnecessary.
7.4 Formatting Tables and Figures
Tables and figures follow the same structure: They have a table or figure
number, a table or figure title, a body (for tables) or an image (for figures),
and table or figure notes as needed. Tables and figures may be produced in
many different file formats; publishers or instructors may limit the formats
they accept.
Use the tables function of your word-processing program to create tables.
If you copy and paste tables from another program (e.g., SPSS, Excel) into
your word-processing program, you may need to adjust the formatting to
comply with APA Style guidelines. Do not use the tab key or space bar to
manually create the look of a table; this approach is prone to alignment errors
and is especially problematic if the table will be typeset for publication.
Figures can be created in a variety of ways using many programs, such as
Excel, PowerPoint, Photoshop, Illustrator, MATLAB, and Inkscape.
Regardless of the program used to create the figure, the output should be of
sufficient resolution to produce high-quality images. TIFF and EPS files are
recommended for figures that are to be submitted for publication; file formats
such as JPG or PNG are also acceptable for other works produced in APA
Style (e.g., classroom assignments). Some types of figures require higher
resolution than others; for example, line art requires finer detail than a
photograph. Ensure that the format used supports the resolution needed for
clear presentation of the image. Check the author guidelines for the journal or
publisher to which you are submitting your work for specifications (for APA
journals, see the Journal Manuscript Preparation Guidelines at
http://on.apa.org/WDtxdW).
7.5 Referring to Tables and Figures in the Text
In the text, refer to every table and figure by its number—known as a callout
(see Sections 7.10 and 7.24, respectively, for how to assign numbers for
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 309 ---

tables and figures that accompany the main text; see Section 2.14 for how to
assign numbers for tables and figures that appear in appendices). When you
call out a table or figure, also tell readers what to look for in that table or
figure.
As shown in Table 1, the demographic characteristics . . .
Figure 2 shows the event-related potentials . . .
. . . of the results of the testing (see Table 3).
. . . of the comparisons (see Figures 4 and 7).
Do not write “the table above” (or “below”) or “the figure on page 32.” Page
numbers often shift during the writing process, which can lead to errors. For
published work, final page numbers and the placement of tables and figures
on the page are determined during typesetting. Referring to tables and figures
by number rather than by location on the page also helps readers who access
a work using assistive technologies such as screen readers. Authors seeking
publication also should not write “place Table 1 here” or “put Figure 2 here”;
the typesetter will determine the position of tables and figures in relation to
the callouts.
7.6 Placement of Tables and Figures
There are two options for the placement of tables and figures in a paper. The
first option is to place all tables and figures on separate pages after the
reference list (with each table on a separate page followed by each figure on a
separate page). The second option is to embed each table and figure within
the text after its first callout. Follow the specifications of the journal
publisher or of the classroom assignment for the placement of tables and
figures. Placing all tables and figures on separate pages after the reference list
may be preferable for manuscripts being submitted for publication to
facilitate copyediting; either approach is appropriate for student assignments
or when the placement for tables and figures has not been specified.
Dissertations and theses may have different specifications for the placement
of tables and figures; for example, in some university guidelines, multiple
tables or figures may be placed on the same page at the end of the document
as long as they fit. When formatting your dissertation or thesis, abide by the
guidelines specified by your advisor and/or university. Authors seeking
publication may need to submit figures as high-resolution files separate from
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 310 ---

the manuscript regardless of where the figures are located within the
manuscript.
Align all tables and figures with the left margin regardless of where they
appear in the paper. When embedding a table or figure within the text,
position it after a full paragraph, ideally the paragraph where it is first called
out. Place the table or figure so that it fits on one page if possible (see Section
7.18 for tables longer or wider than a page). If text appears on the same page
as a table or figure, add a double-spaced blank line between the text and the
table or figure so that the separation between the text and table or figure is
easier to see. Put a short table or small figure at the beginning or end of a
page rather than in the middle.
Tables and figures that support but are not essential to the text may be
placed in one or more appendices. Tables and figures may appear within an
appendix that also contains text, or a table or figure may constitute a whole
appendix by itself (see Section 2.14). Tables and figures can also be placed in
supplemental materials when they would enrich understanding of the material
presented in the article but are not essential to a basic understanding or
cannot be fully displayed in print (see Section 2.15). If tables or figures are
included as supplemental materials, call them out in the text but describe
them only briefly (e.g., write “see Table 1 in the supplemental materials for
the list of stimuli”).
7.7 Reprinting or Adapting Tables and Figures
If you reprint or adapt a table or figure from another source in your paper
(e.g., a table from your own published work, an image you found on the
internet), you must include a copyright attribution in the table note or figure
note indicating the origin of the reprinted or adapted material in addition to a
reference list entry for the work. You may also need to obtain permission
from the copyright holder to reprint or adapt the table or figure. Table 7.14 in
Section 7.21 and Figures 7.3, 7.14, and 7.21 in Section 7.36 show copyright
attributions for an adapted table when permission is not necessary, a reprinted
figure when permission is not necessary, a reprinted figure in the public
domain, and a figure reprinted with permission, respectively. See Sections
12.14 to 12.18 for further information on copyright and permission and for
more copyright attribution formats and examples.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 311 ---

Tables
7.8 Principles of Table Construction
Tables should be integral to the text but designed so that they are concise and
can be understood in isolation. The principle of conciseness is relevant not
only for tables included with the main text but also for tables to be placed in
appendices and supplemental materials. Although supplemental tables may
be longer and more detailed than tables that accompany the main text, they
must be directly and clearly related to the content of the article (see Section
2.15).
All tables are meant to show something specific; for example, tables that
communicate quantitative data are effective only when the data are arranged
so that their meaning is obvious at a glance (Wainer, 1997). Often, the same
data can be arranged in different ways to emphasize different features of the
data, and which arrangement is better depends on your purpose. Above all,
table layout should be logical and easily grasped by readers. Table entries
that are to be compared should be next to one another. In general, different
indices (e.g., means, sample sizes) should be presented in different rows or
columns. Place variable and condition labels close to their values to facilitate
comparison. See the sample tables ( Section 7.21) for examples of effective
layouts.
7.9 Table Components
The basic components of a prototypical table are shown in Table 7.1 and are
summarized as follows.
number: The table number (e.g., Table 1) appears above the table in bold
font (see Section 7.10).
title: The table title appears one double-spaced line below the table
number in italic title case (see Sections 6.17 and 7.11).
headings: Tables may include a variety of headings depending on the
nature and arrangement of the data. All tables should include column
headings, including a stub heading (heading for the leftmost column).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 312 ---

Some tables also include column spanners, decked heads, and table
spanners (see Section 7.12).
body: The table body includes all the rows and columns of a table (see
Section 7.13). A cell is the point of intersection between a row and a
column. The body may be single-spaced, one-and-a-half-spaced, or
double-spaced.
notes: Three types of notes (general, specific, and probability) appear
below the table as needed to describe contents of the table that cannot be
understood from the table title or body alone (e.g., definitions of
abbreviations, copyright attribution). Not all tables include table notes
(see Section 7.14).
Table 7.1 Basic Components of a Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 313 ---

See Section 7.21 for sample tables.
7.10 Table Numbers
Number all tables that are part of the main text (i.e., not part of an appendix
or supplemental materials) using Arabic numerals—for example, Table 1,
Table 2, and Table 3. Assign the numbers in the order in which each table is
first mentioned in the text, regardless of whether a more detailed discussion
of the table occurs elsewhere in the paper. Write the word “Table” and the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 314 ---

number in bold and flush left (i.e., not indented or centered). Tables that
appear in appendices follow a different numbering scheme (see Section 2.14).
7.11 Table Titles
Give every table a brief but clear and explanatory title; the basic content of
the table should be easily inferred from the title. Write the table title in italic
title case below the table number and double-space the table number and title.
Avoid overly general and overly detailed table titles.
Title
quality Example table title Rationale
Too
general
Relation Between College Majors and Performance It is unclear what data are
presented in the table.
Too
detailed
Mean Performance Scores on Test A, Test B, and Test C of
Students With Psychology, Physics, English, and Engineering
Majors
The title duplicates
information in the headings
of the table.
Effective Mean Performance Scores of Students With Different College
Majors
The title is specific but not
redundant with headings.
Abbreviations that appear in the headings or the body of a table may be
parenthetically explained in the table title.
Hit and False-Alarm (FA) Proportions in Experiment 2
Abbreviations may also be defined in a general note to the table (see Section
7.14). Do not use a specific note to clarify an element of the title.
7.12 Table Headings
Headings establish the organization of information in the table and identify
what is in each column. Column headings describe the entries below them.
Table headings should be brief; if possible, the heading should be not much
wider than the information in the column below it. Provide a heading for
every column in a table, including the stub column or stub, which is the
leftmost column of the table (see Table 7.1 for an illustration).
The stub column usually lists the major independent or predictor variables.
In Table 7.1, for instance, the stub column lists the grades. For the stub
column, the heading “Variable” is often used when no other heading is
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 315 ---

suitable. Write the entries in the stub column in parallel form (see Section
4.24 for guidance on parallel construction). Number entries in the stub
column only in a correlation matrix (see Tables 7.10–7.11 in Section 7.21) or
when they are referred to by number in the text. To show subordination
within the stub column, use indentation rather than creating an additional
column (see, e.g., Table 7.2, in which “Single,” “Married/Partnered,” etc. are
indented under the heading “Marital Status”). 1 Set indentation using the
paragraph-formatting feature of your word-processing program rather than by
using the tab key. In typeset articles, the indentation is equal to one em space;
this can be approximated in draft manuscripts by setting the paragraph
indentation to 0.15 in. or inserting an em space from the special characters
menu of your word-processing program.
The headings above the columns to the right of the stub column identify
what is in each column. A column heading applies to just one column; a
column spanner is a heading that covers two or more columns, each with its
own column heading. Headings stacked in this way are called decked heads.
Often, decked heads can be used to avoid repetition of words in column
headings (see Table 7.1). If possible, do not use more than two levels of
decked heads. More complex tables may require table spanners, which are
headings within the body of the table that cover the entire width of the table,
allowing for further divisions within the table when the column headings
remain the same (see Table 7.1). Table spanners can also be used to combine
two tables, provided they have identical column headings.
Any item within a column should be syntactically as well as conceptually
comparable with the other items in that column, and all items should be
described by the column heading. For example, a column with the heading
“%” would contain only percentages; numbers in that column would not be
followed by the percent symbol because the symbol is already in the heading
(see Table 7.2 in Section 7.21).
Use sentence case for all headings in a table (see Section 6.17). Center all
table headings above their column(s). Stub headings, column headings, and
column spanners should be singular (e.g., Measure, Item) unless they refer to
a group (e.g., Children, Women), but table spanners may be singular or
plural.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 316 ---

7.13 Table Body
The main part of the table, the table body, contains information organized in
cells. Information in a table body may be in the form of numbers, words, or a
mixture of both. The body of the table (including table headings) may be
single-spaced, one-and-a-half-spaced, or double-spaced, depending on which
presentation most effectively conveys information to readers (e.g., single
spacing may allow a table to fit on one page). If entries are longer than one
line, use a hanging indent of 0.15 in. or one em space. In the stub column of
the table, center the stub heading and align the entries flush left beneath it. If
entries in this column are significantly shorter than the stub heading, it is
permissible to center them beneath the stub heading (e.g., single-digit
numbers in the stub column; see the partial table later in this section for an
example). The entries in all other cells of the table should be centered
(however, aligning them flush left is acceptable if doing so improves the
readability of longer entries). Use sentence case for all word entries in the
table body (see Section 6.17). Numbers that appear in the table body should
be written as words or numerals according to the guidelines in Sections 6.32
to 6.39; however, it is permissible to use numerals for all numbers in tables if
this would be clearer or save space.
Decimal Values. Express numerical values to the number of decimal places
that the precision of measurement justifies (see Section 6.36). If possible,
carry all comparable values to the same number of decimal places. Numerical
values should be centered in the column and may also be aligned on the
decimal if desired (for the published version, the typesetter will typically
center values and align on the decimal).
Empty Cells. If a cell cannot be filled because data are not applicable, leave
the cell blank. Use a general or specific table note if you need to explain why
the cell is blank or the element is inapplicable (see Section 7.14). If a cell
cannot be filled because data were not obtained or are not reported, insert a
dash in that cell and explain the use of the dash in the general note to the
table (see Section 7.14). By convention, a dash in the main diagonal position
of a correlation matrix (see Tables 7.10–7.11 in Section 7.21) indicates the
correlation of an item with itself, which must be 1.00, and is simply replaced
by the dash with no explanation needed.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 317 ---

Conciseness. Be selective in your presentation. Do not include columns of
data that can be calculated easily from other columns. For example, the
following partial table is redundant because it shows both the number of
responses per trial and the total number of responses; instead, show only
whichever is more important to the discussion.
Participant
No. of responses
Total responsesFirst trial Second trial
1 5 7 12
2 6 4 10
Citations in Tables. If a table contains citations to other works, follow the
formats described in Section 8.11. Use an ampersand (&) for the word “and”
in all citations in tables to conserve space. Table 7.4 in Section 7.21 shows an
example of a table containing citations to studies included in a meta-analysis.
7.14 Table Notes
Tables may have three kinds of notes, which are placed below the body of the
table: general notes, specific notes, and probability notes. Table notes apply
only to a specific table and not to any other table. If information in one table
note is true for another table, repeat the information in the notes for both
tables so that the tables can be understood on their own. Some tables do not
require table notes at all.
General Note. A general note qualifies, explains, or provides information
relating to the table as a whole and explains any abbreviations; symbols;
special use of italics, bold, or parentheses; and the like. The general note also
includes any acknowledgments that a table is reprinted or adapted from
another source (see Section 7.7). General notes are designated by the word
“Note” (italicized) followed by a period (see Table 7.1 and the sample tables
in Section 7.21 for examples). Explanations of abbreviations and copyright
attributions for reprinted or adapted tables appear at the end of the general
note, in that order.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 318 ---

Note. Factor loadings greater than .45 are shown in bold. M = match
process; N = nonmatch process.
Specific Note. A specific note refers to a particular column, row, or cell.
Specific notes are indicated by superscript lowercase letters (e.g., a, b, c). Do
not add specific notes to a table title; instead, use a general note. Within each
table that has specific notes, order the superscripts from left to right and from
top to bottom, starting at the top left and beginning with the letter “a” (see,
e.g., Tables 7.2, 7.10, and 7.15 in Section 7.21). The corresponding specific
note below the table begins with the same superscript letter. Place a
superscript space before the superscript letter in the table body (e.g., Group
a). Place a superscript space after the superscript letter in the specific note.
This space prevents specific notes from getting caught by spell-check and
improves readability.
a n = 25. b This participant did not complete the trials.
Probability Note. A probability note describes how asterisks and other
symbols are used in a table to indicate p values and thus the significance of
the results of statistical hypothesis testing. To report the results of
significance testing, it is best to provide the exact probabilities to two or three
decimal places (e.g., p = .023; see, e.g., Tables 7.8–7.9 in Section 7.21; see
also Section 3.7 and Section 6.36). However, when p values are less than
.001, it is acceptable to write the value as “<.001.”
It may sometimes be difficult to report exact p values in a table because
doing so would make the table difficult to read. An alternative to reporting
exact p values in a table is to use the “p <” notation. Use this notation only in
tables and figures (see Section 7.28 for more on figure notes), not in the text.
In the “p <” notation, asterisks or daggers appear after table entries to
indicate that the entries have reached the established threshold for
significance; definitions of the asterisks and/or daggers appear in a
corresponding probability note. Use the same number of asterisks to indicate
the same p values across tables (or figures) within your paper, such as *p <
.05, **p < .01, and ***p < .001 (see, e.g., Tables 7.10–7.11 in Section 7.21).
In general, do not use any p value smaller than .001. Daggers are sometimes
used to indicate nonsignificant trends based on the threshold established for
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 319 ---

your study (e.g., †p < .10) or to distinguish between one-tailed and two-tailed
tests. Use superscript formatting for asterisks and daggers. In a table body (or
a figure), position asterisks and daggers immediately after the entries they
belong to, with no space in between (e.g., .02 *). In the probability note, place
asterisks and daggers immediately before the p, with no space in between
(e.g., *p < .002).
One-Tailed Versus Two-Tailed Tests. If you need to distinguish between
one-tailed and two-tailed tests in the same table, use an asterisk for the two-
tailed p values and an alternate symbol (e.g., dagger) for the one-tailed p
values, and specify the convention in the probability note.
*p < .05, two-tailed. **p < .01, two-tailed. †p < .05, one-tailed. ††p < .01, one-
tailed.
Indicating Significant Differences Between Values. To indicate statistically
significant differences between two or more table values—for example, when
comparing values with post hoc tests such as Tukey’s honestly significant
difference (HSD) test, Bonferroni procedure, Scheffé method, Fisher’s least
significant difference, or Duncan’s new multiple range test—use lowercase
subscript letters (see Table 7.9 in Section 7.21 for an example). Explain the
use of the subscripts in the table’s general note, as in the following example:
Note. Means sharing a common subscript are not significantly different at α
= .01 according to Tukey’s honestly significant difference procedure.
Formatting of Notes. Begin each kind of note on a new line below the table
body. A general note appears first. A specific note begins on a new line under
a general note; subsequent specific notes begin on the same line. A
probability note begins on a new line under any general or specific notes;
subsequent probability notes begin on the same line. Multiple specific or
probability notes are separated from each other by a period and a space.
Lengthy specific notes may be presented on separate lines if this improves
readability. Double-space all table notes, and align all notes flush left (i.e.,
with no paragraph indentation).
Note. The responses were gathered in the laboratory.
a n = 25. b n = 42.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 320 ---

*p < .05. **p < .01. ***p < .001.
Use of Notes to Eliminate Repetition. Table notes can be useful for
eliminating repetition from the body of a table. Certain types of information
are appropriate either in the table body or in a note. To determine the
placement of such material, remember that clearly and efficiently organized
data enable readers to focus on those data. Thus, if probability values or
subsample sizes are numerous, use a column rather than many notes.
Conversely, if a row or column contains few entries (or the same entry),
eliminate the column by adding a note to the table, as shown in the following
partial tables.
Repetitive
Group n
Anxious
Depressed
Control
15
15
15
Concise
Groupa
Anxious
Depressed
Control
a n = 15 for each group.
7.15 Standard Abbreviations in Tables and Figures
Use standard abbreviations and symbols for all statistics (e.g., M, SD, SE, F,
df, n, p), Greek letters (e.g., α, β, χ 2), and units of measurement (see Tables
6.4–6.5) used in tables without defining them in a note. This guidance also
applies to statistics, Greek letters, and units of measurement appearing in
figures (see Section 7.28 for more on figure notes). The abbreviation “no.”
(for “number”) and the symbol “%” (for “percent”) may also be used without
providing a definition. Other abbreviations used in a table or figure should be
defined in the table or figure title, body, or note, even if the abbreviations are
also defined in the paper (see Sections 6.25 and 6.44). Except where it makes
sense to group similar abbreviations, define the abbreviations in the order that
they appear in the table, starting at the top left and moving left to right, top to
bottom.
7.16 Confidence Intervals in Tables
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 321 ---

When a table includes point estimates—for example, means, correlations, or
regression slopes—it should also, when possible, include confidence
intervals. Report confidence intervals in tables either by using square
brackets, as in the text (see Section 6.9) and in Table 7.16 in Section 7.21, or
by giving lower and upper limits in separate columns, as in Table 7.17 in
Section 7.21. In every table that includes confidence intervals, state the
confidence level (e.g., 95% or 99%). It is usually best to use the same
confidence level throughout a paper.
7.17 Table Borders and Shading
Limit the use of borders or lines in a table to those needed for clarity. In
general, use a border at the top and bottom of the table, beneath column
headings (including decked heads), and above column spanners. You may
also use a border to separate a row containing totals or other summary
information from other rows in the table (see Table 7.1 for an example). Do
not use vertical borders to separate data, and do not use borders around every
cell in a table. Use spacing between columns and rows and strict alignment to
clarify relations among the elements in a table.
Avoid the use of shading in tables. Do not use shading for mere decoration.
To emphasize the content of a particular cell or cells, use a specific or
probability note; italics or bold may also be used with explanation in the
table’s general note. Instead of using shading, add white space or borders
between rows and columns to help readers distinguish them. If shading is
necessary, explain its purpose in the table’s general note.
7.18 Long or Wide Tables
If a table is longer than one page, repeat the heading row on each subsequent
page of the table. It is best to use the automated table-formatting tools of your
word-processing program rather than manually retyping the headings. Table
7.4 in Section 7.21 shows an example of a multipage table—in this case, a
table summarizing the studies included in a meta-analysis.
Wide tables may be presented in landscape orientation (it is not important
if landscape orientation impacts the position of the page header). If a table in
landscape format is still too wide to fit on one page, the stub column (left
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 322 ---

column) should repeat on each subsequent page. If a table is too wide and too
long to fit on one page, create separate tables.
7.19 Relation Between Tables
Consider combining tables that repeat data. Ordinarily, identical columns or
rows of data should not appear in two or more tables. Be consistent in the
presentation of all tables within a paper to facilitate comparisons. Use similar
formats, titles, and headings and the same terminology across tables
whenever possible (e.g., do not use “response time” in one table and
“reaction time” in another table to refer to the same concept). If multiple
tables contain similar data but cannot be combined, number these tables
separately (e.g., Table 1 and Table 2); do not use letters to indicate subtables
(i.e., do not label two tables Table 1A and Table 1B).
7.20 Table Checklist
The table checklist may help ensure that the data in your table are effectively
presented and conform to the style guidelines presented in this chapter.
7.21 Sample Tables
Some tables have certain standard, or canonical, forms (e.g., a correlation
table). When possible, use a standard form rather than designing your own
form. The advantage of using the canonical form is that readers generally
already know where to look in the table for certain kinds of information. In
some situations, you may want to use a form other than the canonical table
form to make a specific point or to stress certain relationships. The judicious
use of nonstandard forms can be effective but must always be motivated by
the special circumstances of the data array. When using nonstandard forms,
make certain that labeling is clear.
Sample tables are presented next; follow these samples to design basic
tables. The exact contents and structure of your table will vary from the
sample tables depending on the nature of the information being presented.
For variations not addressed in this chapter, consult similar published articles
to see examples of current standards and practices.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 323 ---

Table Checklist
Is the table necessary?
Does the table belong in the print and electronic versions of the article,
or can it be placed in supplemental materials?
Are all comparable tables in the paper consistent in presentation?
Are all tables numbered consecutively with Arabic numerals in the
order in which they are first mentioned in the text? Is the table number
bold and flush left?
Are all tables called out or referred to in the text?
Is the table title brief but explanatory? Is it written in italic title case and
flush left?
Does every column have a column heading, including the leftmost
(stub) column? Are all column headings centered?
Are all abbreviations explained (with exceptions as noted in Section
7.15), as well as the special use of italics, bold, parentheses, dashes,
and symbols?
Are the table notes, if needed, in the order of general note, specific
note, and probability note? Are the notes double-spaced and flush left
and in the same font as the text of the paper?
Are table borders correctly applied (at the top and bottom of the table,
beneath column headings, above table spanners)?
Is the line spacing of the table correctly applied (double-spacing for the
table number, title, and notes; single-spacing, one-and-a-half-spacing,
or double-spacing for the table body)?
Are entries in the left column flush left beneath the centered stub
heading? Are all other column headings and cell entries centered
(except when aligning entries to the left would improve readability)?
Are confidence intervals reported for all major point estimates? Is the
confidence level—for example, 95%—stated, and is the same level of
confidence used for all tables and throughout the paper?
If the results of statistical significance testing are included in the table,
are all p values correctly identified? Are exact p values provided? Is
the “p <” notation used only when needed? When the “p <” notation is
used, are asterisks or daggers attached to the appropriate table
entries and defined? Are asterisks or daggers used consistently to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 324 ---

indicate the same p value in all tables in the same paper?
If all or part of a table is reprinted or adapted, is there a copyright
attribution? If permission was necessary to reproduce the table, have
you received written permission for its reuse (in print and electronic
forms) from the copyright holder and sent a copy of that written
permission with the final version of your paper?
demographic characteristics of study participants (Table 7.2):
Demographic data can help readers understand the generalizability of the
results. The demographic data you report will depend on the nature of the
study.
properties of study variables (Table 7.3): Describe the properties of
study variables (e.g., means, standard deviations). If reporting
psychometric information, clearly state the index of reliability (or other
psychometric property) being used and the sample on which the reliability
was based (if different from the study sample).
meta-analysis summary (Table 7.4): The qualities of the studies included
in a meta-analysis can be reported in a table as a summary for readers
(what information is relevant to report will depend on the nature of the
study).
summary of complex experimental design  (Table 7.5): Complex
designs can be summarized in a table, making the entire structure of the
experiment(s) clear without the need for lengthy textual description.
descriptive statistics for study measures (Table 7.6): Descriptive
statistics include means and standard deviations. The exact statistics you
should provide will depend on the nature and purpose of the analyses.
chi-square results (Table 7.7): The results of individual chi-square tests
are usually reported in the text only (see Section 6.43). The results of
multiple chi-square tests may be summarized in a table, which typically
also includes frequencies, p values, and any other relevant statistics such
as effect sizes.
t-test results (Table 7.8): When there is only one t test to report, the
results should be incorporated into the text (see Section 6.43). Use a table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 325 ---

to report the results of multiple t tests.
a priori or post hoc comparisons (Table 7.9): A priori and post hoc tests
(e.g., Tukey’s HSD test, Bonferroni procedure, Scheffé method, Fisher’s
least significant difference, Duncan’s new multiple range test) are used to
compare specific group means in studies in which the independent
variables have more than two levels. Although these results are often
presented in the text rather than in a table, a table can be used to
summarize comparisons. This table is similar to the table for presenting
descriptive statistics (Table 7.6) with the addition of subscripts to note
significantly different means.
correlations (Tables 7.10–7.11): A correlation table presents correlations
between study variables and may also incorporate descriptive statistics,
alpha values, or other relevant statistics (Table 7.10). The perfect
correlation along the diagonal is indicated by an em dash.
Intercorrelations for two different groups can be presented in the same
table, with correlations for one group above the diagonal and for the other
group below the diagonal (Table 7.11). The variables in a correlation table
should be numbered and named in the stub column, with corresponding
numbers alone in the column headings to avoid repeating the variable
names in the column headings.
analysis of variance (Tables 7.12–7.13): The results of a single one-way
ANOVA are typically reported in the text only. The results of multiple
ANOVAs can be reported in a table; various presentations are possible.
For example, degrees of freedom may be presented in the column heading
when they are the same for all tests (Table 7.12) or in their own column
when they differ (Table 7.13). Sums of squares and mean squares are not
typically included in tables intended for publication.
factor analysis (Table 7.14): Factor coefficients or loadings (rotated or
unrotated) can be presented in a variety of ways and may be accompanied
by other indices such as the percentage of variance and eigenvalues. If a
rotation is used, specify the type (e.g., varimax, oblimin). Factor
coefficients or loadings above a prescribed threshold are typically
indicated by the use of bold; the purpose of any bolding should be
explained in the table note.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 326 ---

multiple regression  (Tables 7.15–7.18): The results of multiple
regression, including mediation and moderation analyses, can be
presented in a variety of ways depending on the purpose of the table and
need for detail. Clearly label the regression type (e.g., hierarchical) and
the type of regression coefficients (raw or standardized) being reported.
For hierarchical and other sequential regressions, be sure to provide the
increments of change (see Section 6.43). Four options are shown in the
sample tables: regression coefficients without confidence intervals (Table
7.15), regression coefficients and bracketed confidence intervals (Table
7.16), moderator analysis with confidence intervals in separate columns
(Table 7.17), and hierarchical multiple regression (Table 7.18).
model comparisons (Tables 7.19–7.21): Model comparison tables are
used to compare different models of data (Table 7.19), including
multilevel models (Table 7.20), and to report the results of confirmatory
factor analyses (Table 7.21). Ensure that the competing models are clearly
identified and that the comparisons are clearly specified. Comparative fit
indices can be useful for readers.
qualitative tables (Tables 7.22–7.23): Qualitative data can be presented
in tabular form in an innumerable variety of ways depending on the
purpose of the table. Qualitative tables might include descriptions of
variables (as in Table 7.22), referenced studies, test items, or quotations
from research participants. Quantitative data may be incorporated
alongside the qualitative data (e.g., quotations might be presented
alongside response frequencies, as in Table 7.23).
mixed methods tables (Table 7.24): The procedures or findings of mixed
methods research can be presented in tabular form in various ways
depending on the purpose of the table.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 327 ---

Sample Tables
Table 7.2 Sample Demographic Characteristics Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 328 ---

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 329 ---

Table 7.3 Sample Properties of Study Variables Table
Table 1
Psychometric Properties for DLOPFQ Scales and Subscales
Scale M SD Range Cronbach’s α
Identity total score 86.6 28.0 28–155 .94
  Work Identity 41.6 13.3 16–76 .88
  Social Identity 45.0 15.7 14–84 .91
Self-Directedness total score 91.2 26.5 34–151 .92
  Work Self-Directedness 44.9 13.5 16–76 .85
  Social Self-Directedness 46.3 14.3 17–80 .86
Empathy total score 101.8 15.8 48–139 .84
  Work Empathy 49.9 8.2 20–72 .72
  Social Empathy 51.9 8.6 28–76 .77
Intimacy total score 122.9 28.6 56–189 .91
  Work Intimacy 61.7 14.3 28–94 .82
  Social Intimacy 61.2 15.4 24–96 .86
Note. The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed.)
Levels of Personality Functioning Questionnaire (DLOPFQ) we developed had
four scales (Identity, Self-Directedness, Empathy, and Intimacy), each with
subscales for the work and social domains.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 330 ---

Table 7.4 Sample Meta-Analysis Summary Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 331 ---

Table 7.5 Sample Summary of Complex Experimental Design Table
Table 1
Summary of Designs of Experiments 1–4
Group Preexposure 1 Preexposure 2 Conditioning Test
Experiment 1
  Compound A– X– Y– AX– BY– X+ X–
  Compound novel A– X– Y– AX– BY– Y+ Y–
Experiment 2
  Compound A A– X– Y– AX– BY– A+ A–
  Compound X A– X– Y– AX– BY– X+ X–
  Compound novel A– X– Y– AX– BY– Y+ Y–
Experiment 3
  Compound A– X– Y– AX– Y– X+ X–
  Element A– X– Y– AX– Y– Y+ Y–
Experiment 4
  Control A+/Y+ A–/Y–
  Element A A– X– Y– A– X– Y– A+ A–
  Element Y A– X– Y– A– X– Y– Y+ Y–
Note. A, X, Y, and B = tone, clicker, steady light, and flashing light,
respectively (counterbalanced), with the constraint that A and B are drawn
from one modality and X and Y from another (counterbalanced); plus sign (+)
= shock to floor of rat chamber; minus sign (–) = absence of shock.
Table 7.6 Sample Descriptive Statistics for Study Measures Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 332 ---

Table 1

Means and Standard Deviations of Scores on Baseline Measures

Scale High BAS group Moderate BAS group p
BAS-T 46.17 (2.87) 37.99 (1.32) <.001 =
SR 17.94 (1.88) 11.52 (1.84) <.001 | ashort table are easily
BDI 7.11 (6.50) 6.18 (6.09) .254 pesanlnea aap
ASRM 6.46 (4.01) 5.63 (3.69) .109
M-SRM 11.05 (3.36) 11.76 (2.75) .078

Note. Standard deviations are presented in parentheses. BAS = Behavioral Activation System;
BAS-T = Behavioral Activation System—Total scores from the Behavioral Inhibition System/
Behavioral Activation System Scales; SR = Sensitivity to Reward scores from the Sensitivity to
Punishment and Sensitivity to Reward Questionnaire; BDI = Beck Depression Inventory scores;
ASRM = Altman Self-Rating Mania Scale scores; M-SRM = Modified Social Rhythm Metric

Regularity scores.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 333 ---

Table 7.7 Sample Chi-Square Analysis Table
Table 1
Frequencies and Chi-Square Results for Belief Perseverance in
Attitudes Toward Celebrities (N = 201)
Source Do not
believe Unsure Believe χ2(2)
n % n % n %
Media reports 17 8.46 140 69.65 44 21.89 124.75*
Family reports 47 23.38 106 52.74 48 23.88 34.06*
Friends’ reports 42 20.90 112 55.72 47 23.38 45.52*
Caught by media 19 9.45 82 40.80 100 49.75 54.00*
Celebrity display of
behavior
12 5.97 61 30.35 128 63.68 101.22*
*p < .001.
Table 7.8 Sample Results of Several t Tests Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 334 ---

Table 7.9 Sample a Priori or Post Hoc Comparisons Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 335 ---

Table 7.10 Sample Correlation Table for One Sample
Table 7.11 Sample Correlation Table for Two Samples
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 336 ---

Table 1

Intercorrelations for Study Variables Disaggregated by Gender

Variable 1 2 3 4
1. Grade point average - 49” 35” -.05
2. Academic self-concept 35° - 36" 02
3. Teacher trust 49" 35" = .20"
4. Age 10 21; =-.15 =

Note. The results for the female sample (n = 199) are shown above the diagonal. The results for
the male sample (n = 120) are shown below the diagonal.
“p<.05. “p<.01.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 337 ---

Table 7.12 Sample Analysis of Variance Table (Option 1)
Table 1
Means, Standard Deviations, and One-Way Analyses of Variance in
Psychological and Social Resources and Cognitive Appraisals
Measure Urban Rural F(1, 294) η2
M SD M SD
Self-esteem 2.91 0.49 3.35 0.35 68.87*** .19
Social support 4.22 1.50 5.56 1.20 62.60*** .17
Cognitive appraisals
  Threat 2.78 0.87 1.99 0.88 56.35*** .20
  Challenge 2.48 0.88 2.83 1.20 7.87*** .03
  Self-efficacy 2.65 0.79 3.53 0.92 56.35*** .16
***p < .001.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 338 ---

Table 7.13 Sample Analysis of Variance Table (Option 2)
Table 2
Means, Standard Deviations, and Two-Way ANOVA Statistics for
Study Variables
Variable SMT Control ANOVA
M SD M SD Effect F ratio df η 2
Psychological strain
  Time 1 0.24 0.30 0.22 0.29 G 2.82 1,151 .02
  Time 2 0.16 0.27 0.27 0.32 T 0.38 2,302 .00
  Time 3 0.16 0.26 0.26 0.31 G × T 4.64** 2,302 .03
Emotional exhaustion
  Time 1 2.82 1.47 2.50 1.25 G 0.32 1,151 .00
  Time 2 2.55 1.31 2.47 1.28 T 6.59** 2,302 .04
  Time 3 2.36 1.39 2.43 1.16 G × T 3.89* 2,302 .03
Depersonalization
  Time 1 1.20 1.09 1.12 1.05 G 0.07 1,149 .00
  Time 2 1.13 1.07 1.25 1.16 T 0.67 2,302 .00
  Time 3 1.00 0.93 1.24 0.93 G × T 3.04* 2,302 .02
Note. N = 153. ANOVA = analysis of variance; SMT = stress management
training group; Control = wait-list control group; G = group; T = time.
*p < .05. **p < .01.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 339 ---

Table 7.14 Sample Factor Analysis Table
Table 7.15 Sample Regression Table, Without Confidence Intervals
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 340 ---

Table 2

Regression Coefficients of Leader Sleep on Charismatic Leadership

Variable Model 1 Model 2
B B SE B B SE
Constant 2.65" 31 2.76
Leader gender* -11 -.07 16 -.09 —.06 15
-.36" —.24 15
14
.05°

Note. N = 88. We examined the impact of leader sleep condition (control vs. sleep deprived) on ratings of
charismatic leadership. In Model 1, we entered the control variables of gender and video length to predict
leader charisma. In Model 2, we entered sleep condition as a predictor.

* Male = 1, female = 2. Control condition = 0, sleep-deprived condition = 1.

“p<.05. “p< .01.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 341 ---

Table 7.16 Sample Regression Table, With Confidence Intervals in Brackets
Table 7.17 Sample Regression Table, With Confidence Intervals in Separate Columns
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 342 ---

confidence

intervals in
Table 3 separate
a columns
Moderator Analysis: Types of Measurement and Study Year
Effect Estimate SE 95% Cl p
LE UL
Fixed effects
Intercept .119 040 041 198 -003
Creativity measurement? .097 028 042 153 001
Academic achievement -.039 018 -.074 -.004 .03
measurement?
Study year‘ -0002 001 -.001 002 76
Goal? -.003 029 -.060 .054 91
Published® .054 030 —.005 114 .07
Random effects
Within-study variance .009 001 008 011 <.001
Between-study variance .018 .003 -012 .023 <.001

Note. Number of studies = 120, number of effects = 782, total N = 52,578. Cl = confidence

interval; LL = lower limit; UL = upper limit.

?0 = self-report, 1 = test. °O = test, 1 = grade point average. “Study year was grand centered.

*0 = other, 1=yes. °0 = no, 1= yes.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 343 ---

Table 7.18 Sample Hierarchical Multiple Regression Table
Table 2
Hierarchical Regression Results for Well-Being
Variable B 95% CI for B SE B β R2 ΔR2
LL UL
Step 1 .11 .11***
  Constant 4.37*** 3.72 5.03 0.33
  Perceived social
class
0.43*** 0.19 0.68 0.12 .30***
  Generation level –
0.11  
–
0.27
0.04 0.08 –.12  
Step 2 .23 .13***
  Constant 1.78   –
0.39
3.95 1.10
  Perceived social
class
0.40*** 0.16 0.64 0.12 .28***
  Generation level –
0.02  
–
0.23
0.19 0.11 –.02  
  Familismo 0.33**  0.07 0.60 0.14 .21** 
  Acculturation 0.09   –
0.31
0.48 0.20 .04  
  Enculturation 0.29   –
0.04
0.61 0.17 .19  
  Mex Am margin –
0.23** 
–
0.45
–
0.01
0.11 –.17** 
Step 3 .26 .03** 
  Constant 2.27**  0.08 4.45 1.11
  Perceived social
class
0.45*** 0.21 0.69 0.12 .31***
  Generation level –
0.01  
–
0.21
0.20 0.10 –.01  
  Familismo 0.37*   0.10 0.63 0.13 .23*  
  Acculturation 0.11   –
0.28
0.50 0.20 .05  
  Enculturation 0.35**  0.02 0.68 0.17 .24** 
  Mex Am margin 0.11 –.17** 
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 344 ---

–
0.23** 
–
0.45
–
0.02
  Masculinity ideology –
0.05** 
–
0.10
–
0.01
0.20 –.18** 
Note. CI = confidence interval; LL = lower limit; UL = upper limit; familismo =
the collective importance of family unity that emphasizes interdependence and
solidarity; Mex Am margin = Mexican American marginalization.
*p < .05. **p < .01. ***p < .001.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 345 ---

Table 7.19 Sample Model Comparison Table
Table 1
Comparison of Fit Indices in Models Fitted to Simulated Data Across
Longitudinal Mediation Model Types
Model χ2 RMSEA AIC BIC ΔAIC ΔBIC
Value df p Value
95%
CI p
Simplex lagged 63.3 28 <.001 .044 [.030,
.059]
.72 13,479 13,658 — —
Simplex
contemporaneous
58.0 29 .001 .040 [.024,
.054]
.87 13,472 13,646 –7 –12
Latent growth 65.0 33 <.001 .039 [.025,
.053]
.90 13,471 13,627 –8 –31
Modified latent
change
26.2 33 .79 .000 [.000,
.020]
>.9913,432 13,588 –47 –70
Note. AIC and BIC differences are relative to the simplex lagged model.
RMSEA = root-mean-square error of approximation; CI = confidence interval;
AIC = Akaike information criterion; BIC = Bayesian information criterion.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 346 ---

Table 7.20 Sample Multilevel Model Comparison Table
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 347 ---

Table 7.21 Sample Confirmatory Factor Analysis Model Comparison
Table
Table 2
Results of Confirmatory Factor Analysis for the Relationships Among
Three Types of Intelligence
Model χ2 df NFI CFI RMSEA
A: One-intelligence model a 10,994.664*** 1539 .296 .326 .115
B: Two-intelligences model b 10,091.236*** 1538 .354 .390 .109
C: Three-intelligences model c 8,640.066*** 1536 .447 .494 .100
Note. Structural equation modeling was used for the analysis. NFI = normed fit
index; CFI = comparative fit index; RMSEA = root-mean-square error of
approximation.
a In Model A, all 57 items of social intelligence, emotional intelligence, and
cultural intelligence were loaded onto one factor. b In Model B, the 21 items of
social intelligence were loaded onto one factor, and the 16 items of emotional
intelligence and the 20 items of cultural intelligence were loaded onto another
factor. c In Model C, the 21 items of social intelligence were loaded onto one
factor, the 16 items of emotional intelligence were loaded onto a second
factor, and the 20 items of cultural intelligence were loaded onto a third factor.
***p < .001.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 348 ---

Table 7.22 Sample Qualitative Table With Variable Descriptions
Table 2
Master Narrative Voices: Struggle and Success and Emancipation
Discourse and dimension Example quote
Struggle and success
Self-actualization as a
member of a larger gay
community is the end
goal of healthy sexual
identity development, or
“coming out”
“My path of gayness . . . going from denial to saying,
‘well, this is it,’ and then the process of coming out,
and the process of just sort of looking around and
seeing, well where do I stand in the world? And sort of
having, uh, political feelings.” (Carl, age 50)
Maintaining healthy sexual
identity entails vigilance
against internalization of
societal discrimination
“When I’m, like, thinking of criticisms of more mainstream
gay culture, I try to . . . make sure it’s coming from an
appropriate place and not, like, a place of self-loathing.”
(Patrick, age 20)
Emancipation
Open exploration of an
individually fluid sexual
self is the goal of healthy
sexual identity
development
“[For heterosexuals] the man penetrates the woman,
whereas with gay people, I feel like there is this potential
for really playing around with that model a lot, you know,
and just experimenting and exploring.” (Orion, age 31)
Questioning discrete,
monolithic categories of
sexual identity
“LGBTQI, you know, and added on so many letters. It
does start to raise the question about what the terms
mean and whether . . . any term can adequately be
descriptive.” (Bill, age 50)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 349 ---

Table 7.23 Sample Qualitative Table Incorporating Quantitative Data
Table 1
Reasons Why Individuals Chose to Watch the Royal Wedding (N =
45)
Reason for
interest Example quote
Frequency,
n (%)
Royal
family
and its
history
“I love all things British. I studied abroad in the U.K. I also
watched the weddings of Charles & Diana and Andrew &
Fergie. I watched Diana’s funeral. Watching William &
Kate get married seemed like the natural thing to do.”
16 (35.6)
“I find the royal family and their practices and traditions
fascinating. I am a big fan of tradition in any capacity
(graduation ceremonies, weddings, etc.) and enjoy
watching traditions older than our own country (the
U.S.).”
Fashion
and pop
culture
“When big pop culture things happen, I tend to want to
watch so I’m ‘in on it.’ Also, when I was little my mom
made us get up to watch Princess Diana get married, so
it felt a little like tradition.”
“I was curious. Wanted to see her dress and how the other
people who attended dressed. Like pomp and
ceremony.”
13 (28.9)
Fairy tales
and
love
stories
“I watched his mom and dad get married, watched him
grow up. Plus I love a fairy tale that comes true. I believe
in love and romance.”
“I am a romantic and think this is a great love story.”
11 (24.4)
To pass
time/it
was on
TV
“I was at the airport and it was broadcasting on TV while I
was waiting for my flight.”
5 (11.1)
“It was on CNN when I got up.”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 350 ---

Table 7.24 Sample Mixed Methods Table
Table 3
Integrated Results Matrix for the Effect of Topic Familiarity on
Reliance on Author Expertise
Quantitative result Qualitative result Example quote
When the topic
was more
familiar
(climate
change) and
cards were
more relevant,
participants
placed less
value on
author
expertise.
When an assertion
was considered
to be more
familiar and to
be general
knowledge,
participants
perceived less
need to rely on
author expertise.
Participant 144: “I feel that I know more
about climate, and there are several
things on the climate cards that are
obvious, and that if I sort of know it
already, then the source is not so critical
. . . whereas with nuclear energy, I don’t
know so much, so then I’m maybe more
interested in who says what.”
When the topic
was less
familiar
(nuclear
power) and
cards were
more relevant,
participants
placed more
value on
author
expertise.
When an assertion
was considered
to be less
familiar and not
general
knowledge,
participants
perceived more
need to rely on
author expertise.
Participant 3: “[Nuclear power], which I
know much, much less about, I would
back up my arguments more with what I
trust from the professors.”
Note. We integrated quantitative data (whether students selected a card about
nuclear power or about climate change) and qualitative data (interviews with
students) to provide a more comprehensive description of students’ card
selections between the two topics.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 351 ---

Figures
7.22 Principles of Figure Construction
All types of graphical displays other than tables are considered figures in
APA Style. Ensure that all figures add substantively to readers’
understanding and do not duplicate other elements of the paper. Also
consider whether a figure is the best way to communicate the information. In
some cases (particularly when quantitative information is being conveyed), a
table may offer more precision than, say, a graph. If you focus on the
principle of enhancing readers’ understanding, other questions—for example,
use of color, use of photographic images, or magnitude of cropping of a
picture—should be relatively easy to resolve.
The standards for good figures are simplicity, clarity, continuity, and (of
course) information value. A good figure
augments rather than duplicates the text,
conveys only essential information,
omits visually distracting detail,
is easy to read—its elements (e.g., type, lines, labels, symbols) are large
enough to be seen and interpreted with ease,
is easy to understand—its purpose is readily apparent,
is carefully planned and prepared, and
is consistent with and in the same style as similar figures in the same
article.
For figures of all types, check that
images are clear,
lines are smooth and sharp,
font is simple and legible,
units of measurement are provided,
axes are clearly labeled, and
elements within the figure are labeled or explained.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 352 ---

Be certain, for instance, to distinguish between error bars and confidence
intervals. When using confidence intervals, clearly specify the size of the
interval (e.g., 95%); when using error bars, provide the label for the error
(e.g., standard error of the mean) in the figure image or note. In addition,
check all figures to ensure that
sufficient information is given in the legend and/or note to make the
figure understandable on its own (i.e., apart from the text),
symbols are easy to differentiate, and
the graphic is large enough for its elements to be discernible.
Even when using high-quality graphics software to construct figures,
examine figures carefully and make any necessary adjustments to follow
these guidelines.
7.23 Figure Components
The basic components of a prototypical figure are shown in Figure 7.1 and
are summarized as follows:
number: The figure number (e.g., Figure 1) appears above the figure in
bold (see Section 7.24).
title: The figure title appears one double-spaced line below the figure
number in italic title case (see Sections 6.17 and 7.25).
image: The image portion of the figure is the chart, graph, photograph,
drawing, or other illustration itself (see Section 7.26).
legend: A figure legend, or key, if present, should be positioned within
the borders of the figure and explains any symbols used in the figure
image (see Section 7.27).
note: Three types of notes (general, specific, and probability) can appear
below the figure to describe contents of the figure that cannot be
understood from the figure title, image, and/or legend alone (e.g.,
definitions of abbreviations, copyright attribution). Not all figures include
figure notes (see Section 7.28).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 353 ---

Figure 7.1 Basic Components of a Figure
See Section 7.36 for sample figures.
7.24 Figure Numbers
Number all figures that are part of the main text (i.e., not part of an appendix
or supplemental materials) using Arabic numerals—for example, Figure 1,
Figure 2, and Figure 3. Assign the numbers in the order in which each figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 354 ---

is first mentioned in the text, regardless of whether a more detailed discussion
of the figure occurs elsewhere in the paper. Write the word “Figure” and the
number in bold and flush left (i.e., not indented or centered). Figures that
appear in appendices follow a different numbering scheme (see Section 2.14).
7.25 Figure Titles
Give every figure a brief but clear and explanatory title; the basic content of
the figure should be easily inferred from the title. Write the figure title in
italic title case below the figure number and double-space the figure number
and title. Avoid overly general and overly detailed figure titles (see Section
7.11).
7.26 Figure Images
The image part of the figure (e.g., graph, chart, diagram) should be saved in a
resolution sufficient to allow for clear printing or viewing (see Section 7.4).
Attend to the following considerations when creating images.
Size and Proportion of Elements. Each element in a figure must be large
enough and sharp enough to be legible. Use a simple sans serif font (e.g.,
Arial, Calibri, Lucida Sans Unicode; see Section 2.19) within the image
portion of the figure with enough space between letters to avoid crowding.
Letters should be clear, sharp, and uniformly dark and should be sized
consistently throughout the figure; the font size should be no smaller than 8
points and no larger than 14 points. As a general guideline, plot symbols
should be about the size of lowercase letters that appear in a label within the
figure. Also consider the weight (i.e., size, density) of each element in a
figure in relation to that of every other element, and make the most important
elements the most prominent. For example, curves on line graphs and
outlines of bars on bar graphs should be bolder than axis labels, which should
be bolder than the axes and tick marks.
Spelling, Capitalization, and Numbers Within Figure Images. Use title
case for axis labels. Abbreviate the words “number” to “no.” and
“percentage” to “%.” Words within figure images other than those on the axis
labels or in the figure legend may be written in either title case or sentence
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 355 ---

case (see Section 6.17), depending on the contents of the figure. In general,
labels, phrases, or words that serve as headings would be better set in title
case, whereas other descriptive phrases, sentences, or paragraphs within a
figure would be better set in sentence case. Numbers that appear in the image
portion of a figure should be written as words or numerals according to the
guidelines in Sections 6.32 to 6.39; however, it is permissible to use numerals
for all numbers in a figure if this would be clearer or save space. Statistics,
Greek letters, and units of measurement do not need to be defined in a figure
note (see Section 7.15).
Shading. Limit the number of different shadings used in a single graphic. If
different shadings are used to distinguish bars or segments of a graph, choose
shadings that are distinct; for example, the best option to distinguish two sets
of bars is no shading (“open”) and black or gray (“solid”). If more than two
shadings are needed, use patterns, again making sure that the patterns are
distinct—for example, use no (open) shading, solid black or gray, and stripes
for three shadings. If error bars or other information overlaps with shaded
areas (e.g., double-sided error bars in a bar graph), ensure that the
overlapping information can be clearly distinguished from the shading.
Color. Color can serve both communicative and decorative purposes in
figures. Authors seeking publication should avoid the use of color except
when it is necessary for understanding the material because of the relatively
high cost of color reproduction for printed materials (authors may bear some
of this cost; for APA journals guidelines, see http://on.apa.org/WDtxdW). For
example, photographs, fMRI images, and gene staining results often use
color. If color representation is not crucial for understanding and the article is
to be published both in print and online, convert the figure to grayscale or
consider placing the figure online as supplemental material. Some journals
offer the option to publish a figure in color online and in grayscale in print at
no cost; when using this option, ensure that the figure can still be understood
even when it is printed in grayscale. It is the author’s responsibility to ensure
that the final representation is accurate. However, authors submitting a
manuscript to an online-only journal may use color more liberally (e.g.,
colored bars rather than gray and white bars in a bar graph). Likewise,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 356 ---

students preparing a figure for a course assignment may use color provided
that the assignment will be delivered in a format that supports it.
When selecting colors for a figure, ensure that there is plenty of contrast so
that people living with a color-vision deficiency (often referred to as “color
blindness”) or people who do not see color in a typical way can understand
the information and tell the colors apart. Best practice is to use a contrast
checker such as the free Colour Contrast Analyser
(https://developer.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser) to evaluate
the contrast ratio and confirm that your content passes the standards for
WCAG 2.0 AA or later.2 Adequate contrast ratios ensure that the figure is not
only accessible to readers with color-deficient vision but also understandable
by all readers if the figure is printed or photocopied in grayscale. Another
strategy to achieve adequate contrast is to use a pattern in combination with
color so that the differentiation of elements does not rely on color alone (e.g.,
in a line graph, different lines may be in different colors and also of different
styles, such as solid, dashed, and dotted). When many colors must be used
and it is not possible to achieve high contrast among all of them, label
colored areas directly in the image or use lines to connect the object to its
label rather than placing the label in a legend, if possible, so that readers do
not have to match colors in the figure to colors in the legend. See the APA
Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org) for an example of how people with
certain color-vision deficiencies see color and how the colors used in figures
can be adjusted to accommodate them.
Gridlines and 3-D Effects. Avoid the use of gridlines in figures unless the
gridlines will substantially aid readers in understanding the content, such as
when many data points need to be compared across the x-axis. Likewise,
avoid including 3-D effects for mere decoration (e.g., 3-D bar graphs)
because they may make the figure more difficult to read. However, 3-D
effects can be used to convey essential information (e.g., 3-D representations
of stimuli).
Panels. The decision of whether to divide a figure into panels or create a
separate figure for each panel will depend on the nature of the information
being presented. Although panels help readers directly compare information,
they also increase the density of the information being presented on the page;
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 357 ---

as always, prioritize clear communication when constructing any figure. If
the figure includes multiple panels, it is optional to label them. If panels are
unlabeled, refer to panels by their position (e.g., the top panel, the left panel,
the middle panel). To label panels, assign each one a capital letter (e.g., A, B)
and place the label at the top left of the panel. Refer to the panels as “Panel
A,” “Panel B,” and so forth. In the main text, refer to a panel as “Figure 5A”
or “Panel A of Figure 5.” In the figure general note, explain each panel. See
Figures 7.18 and 7.19 in Section 7.36 for examples of figures with labeled
panels.
Citations in Figures. If a figure contains citations to other works, follow the
formats described in Section 8.11. Use an ampersand (&) for the word “and”
in all citations in figures to conserve space.
7.27 Figure Legends
A legend (also called a key) explains any symbols, line styles, or shading or
pattern variants used in the image portion of the figure (see Figures 7.2–7.3 in
Section 7.36 for examples). The legend is an integral part of the figure;
therefore, its lettering should be of the same kind and proportion as that
appearing in the rest of the figure. Capitalize words in the legend using title
case (see Section 6.17). Only figures that have symbols, line styles, or
shadings needing definition should include legends. When possible, place
legends within or below the image instead of to the side to avoid having
empty space around the legend.
7.28 Figure Notes
Figure notes contain information needed to clarify the contents of the figure
for readers. As with tables, figures may have three kinds of notes: general,
specific, and probability.
A general note should explain units of measurement, symbols, and
abbreviations that are not included in the legend or defined elsewhere in the
figure (see Section 7.15 for information on abbreviations and symbols that do
not require definitions). Make certain that the symbols, abbreviations, and
terminology in the note and legend match the symbols, abbreviations, and
terminology in the figure, in other figures in the paper, and in the text.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 358 ---

Explain the use of shading, color, and any other design element that carries
meaning. Provide individual descriptions of panels for multipanel figures. If a
graph includes error bars, explain in the image or general note whether they
represent standard deviations, standard errors, confidence limits, or ranges; it
is also helpful to provide sample sizes. Also include within the general note
any acknowledgment that a figure is reprinted or adapted from another source
(see Section 7.7). Place explanations of abbreviations and copyright
attributions for reproduced figures last in the general note.
Position any superscripts for specific notes near the element being
identified. It is preferable to report exact p values; however, if statistically
significant values are marked with asterisks or daggers in the figure, explain
them in a probability note (see Section 7.14). For guidelines on formatting
figure notes, see Section 7.14.
7.29 Relation Between Figures
Similar figures or figures of equal importance should be of equal size and
scale. Combine figures that are alike to facilitate comparisons between their
content. For example, two line graphs with identical axes might be combined
horizontally into a single figure, or multiple figures might be combined into
one figure with multiple panels (see Section 7.26).
7.30 Photographs
Photographs are a type of figure with special considerations. Authors seeking
publication must check publisher guidelines to ensure the photograph is
submitted in the correct file type. Photographs may be printed in grayscale or
in color, depending on the contents of the photograph and the venue of
publication. Color photographs should include enough contrast to ensure that
contents will be understandable if reproduced in grayscale. Photographs in
most student papers can be in color and saved in any widely available photo
format (see Section 7.26 for more information on the use of color in figures).
It is essential that photographic images be submitted at appropriate levels
of resolution (as specified by the publisher). Because reproduction softens
contrast and detail in photographs, starting with rich contrast and sharp detail
will improve the final version of the image. The camera view and the lighting
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 359 ---

should highlight the subject and provide high contrast; a light or dark
background can provide even more contrast. Photographs usually benefit
from cropping to, for example, eliminate extraneous detail or center the
image. However, when a photographic image has been altered in a manner
beyond simple cropping and/or adjustment for light levels, clearly indicate in
a general note how the image has been altered. Ethical principles of
publication forbid any intentional misrepresentation of images, just as
fraudulent data manipulation is forbidden. See Figure 7.17 in Section 7.36 for
an example of a photograph as a figure.
If you photograph an identifiable person, obtain a signed release from that
person to use the photograph in your paper (see Section 12.17); if the person
is not identifiable, a release is not needed. If you took a photograph yourself,
no citation or copyright attribution is required in the figure note. If you want
to reprint or adapt a photograph from another source, you may need to obtain
permission to use it in your paper because professional photographs are
usually the property of the photographer. See Sections 12.14 to 12.18 for
further information on reprinting or adapting photographs from other sources.
7.31 Considerations for Electrophysiological, Radiological,
Genetic, and Other Biological Data
The presentation of electrophysiological, radiological, genetic, and other
biological data presents special challenges because of the complexity of the
data. Focus first on making sure your image accurately represents the data. It
is essential that you identify in the general note how images were processed
or enhanced and that you clearly label the images. Next, consider principles
of clarity of representation, necessity for inclusion, and consistency among
representations. If your figure contains more than one panel or your paper
contains more than one figure, keep style and formatting elements as
consistent as possible throughout (although specific features such as axis
labels and scale units may vary). Biological and genetic data often must be
presented in color for the information to be interpretable (see Section 7.26).
Carefully consider whether to include complex graphs and images in the
main text or as supplemental materials. Use supplemental materials to present
content that is better displayed online than in print or that can only be viewed
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 360 ---

online. For example, the dynamic spread of brain activation may be able to be
displayed only through color video clips.
7.32 Electrophysiological Data
When presenting electrophysiological data, clear labeling of the image is
essential; for example, in the presentation of event-related brain potential
data, it is essential that the direction of negativity (i.e., negative up or down)
be indicated as well as the scale of the response. Information that is necessary
for proper interpretation of the image, such as number or placement of
electrodes, should accompany the figure. See Figure 7.19 in Section 7.36 for
an example of a figure presenting event-related brain potential data.
7.33 Radiological (Imaging) Data
When presenting brain images, clearly label each image and provide details
needed to interpret the image in the figure note. When axial or coronal
sections are being displayed, clearly label which hemisphere is the left and
which is the right. When sagittal slices are displayed, clearly indicate whether
each slice is of the right or the left hemisphere. When slices are shown, also
present an image that indicates where in the brain the slices were taken to
help orient readers. Specify the coordinate space in which the images have
been normalized (e.g., Talairach, MNI).
Cutaway views of the brain that show activations interior to it can be
useful if the cutaways clearly depict the tissue that has been excised. When
activations are superimposed on a surface-rendered image of a brain, clear
explanation of what activations are being shown should accompany the
figure, particularly with regard to the depth of the activation that has been
brought to the surface; the use of flattened surface images may help make the
data clearer. When using color, use it consistently in all representations
within the paper and clearly specify the color–scale mapping. Neuroimaging
data almost always require extensive postacquisition processing, and details
of the processing methods should accompany their display.
Photomicrographs are often used in cell-staining and other types of imaging
studies. When preparing photomicrographs, include a scale bar and staining
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 361 ---

materials information. See Figure 7.20 in Section 7.36 for an example of
fMRI data in a figure.
7.34 Genetic Data
As with other displays of biological material, clear labeling of images
enhances displays of genetic information (e.g., deletion patterns), be they of
the physical map variety or the photographic stain variety. Present
information concerning locations, distances, markers, and identification
methods with the figure. Genetic data displays often contain much
information; careful and circumscribed editing of the image and its legend
can improve the communicative value of the figure. See Figure 7.21 in
Section 7.36 for an example of a physical map of genetic material in a figure.
7.35 Figure Checklist
The figure checklist may be helpful to ensure that your figure communicates
effectively and conforms to the style guidelines presented in this chapter.
Figure Checklist
Is the figure necessary?
Does the figure belong in the print and electronic versions of the
article, or can it be placed in supplemental materials?
Is the figure being submitted in a file format acceptable to the
publisher?
Has the file been produced at a sufficiently high resolution to allow for
accurate reproduction?
Are figures of equally important concepts prepared according to the
same size and scale?
Are all figures numbered consecutively with Arabic numerals in the
order in which they are first mentioned in the text? Is the figure number
bold and flush left?
Are all figures called out or referred to in the text?
Is the figure title brief but explanatory? Is it written in italic title case
and flush left?
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 362 ---

Is the figure image simple, clear, and free of extraneous detail?
Are all elements of the image clearly labeled?
Are the magnitude, scale, and direction of grid elements clearly
labeled?
Has the figure been formatted properly? Is the font sans serif within
the image portion of the figure and between 8 and 14 points in size?
Are all abbreviations explained (with exceptions as noted in Section
7.15), as well as the use of special symbols?
If the figure includes a legend to define symbols, line styles, or shading
variants, does the legend appear within or below the image? Are
words in the legend written in title case?
Have all substantive modifications to photographic images been
disclosed?
Are the figure notes, if needed, in the order of general note, specific
note, and probability note? Are the notes double-spaced and flush left
and in the same font as the text of the paper?
If all or part of a figure is reprinted or adapted, is there a copyright
attribution? If permission was necessary to reproduce the figure, have
you received written permission for reuse (in print and electronic
forms) from the copyright holder and sent a copy of that written
permission with the final version of your paper?
7.36 Sample Figures
Many types of figures can be used to present data to readers. The more
common types of figures used in qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods
research are presented next. There are many variations and versions of each,
and the distinctions among many of them are not clear. For situations not
addressed here, consult similar published articles to see examples of current
standards and practices and follow those examples.
graphs (Figures 7.2–7.3): Graphs typically display the relationship
between two quantitative indices or between a continuous quantitative
variable (usually displayed on the y-axis) and groups of participants or
subjects (usually displayed on the x-axis). Bar graphs (Figure 7.2) and line
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 363 ---

graphs (Figure 7.3) are two examples of graphs.
charts (Figures 7.4–7.11): Charts generally display nonquantitative
information with the use of enclosed boxes, squares, or circles connected
with straight or curved lines or arrows. They are used to
show the flow of participants or subjects, such as through a study
process (Figure 7.4) or in a randomized clinical trial (Figure 7.5; this is
referred to as a CONSORT flow diagram; for a downloadable template,
see the CONSORT website at http://www.consort-
statement.org/consort-statement/flow-diagram);
illustrate models—for example, conceptual or theoretical models
(Figure 7.6), structural equation models (Figure 7.7), confirmatory
factor analysis models (Figure 7.8), and path models (Figure 7.9); and
illustrate qualitative (Figure 7.10) and mixed methods (Figure 7.11)
research designs or frameworks.
drawings (Figures 7.12–7.13): Drawings show information pictorially
and can be used to illustrate, for example,
experimental setups (Figure 7.12) and
experimental stimuli (Figure 7.13).
maps (Figure 7.14): Maps generally display spatial information—for
example, geographic census information. This information often comes
from government sources (e.g., the U.S. Census Bureau or the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention); to reprint or adapt tables or figures from
these sources, see Section 12.16.
plots (Figures 7.15–7.16): Plots present individual data points as a
function of axis variables. Common types of plots include
the scatterplot (Figure 7.15), which is used to explore the relationship
between two variables (e.g., a linear relationship may be indicated if the
data points are clustered along the diagonal), and
multidimensional scaling (Figure 7.16), in which similar points or
stimuli are presented close together in a multidimensional space and
those that are dissimilar appear farther apart.
photographs (Figure 7.17): Photographs (see Section 7.30) contain direct
visual representations of information. They are often used to present
information that would be difficult to portray effectively with drawings,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 364 ---

such as facial expressions or precise placement of stimuli in an
environment.
Multipanel Figures. A multipanel figure may combine bar graphs, line
graphs, histograms, and other figure types into one figure (see Figure 7.18 for
an example; see also Section 7.26). Whether it is advisable to combine panels
into one figure or to present panels as separate figures will depend on the size
of the figures and the nature of the information being presented.
Figures for Electrophysiological, Radiological, Genetic, and Other
Biological Data. A variety of figures are used to present biological data.
These data include
event-related potentials (Figure 7.19),
fMRI data (Figure 7.20), and
genetic maps (Figure 7.21).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 365 ---

Sample Figures
Figure 7.2 Sample Bar Graph
Figure 7.3 Sample Line Graph
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 366 ---

Figure 7.4 Sample Figure Showing the Flow of Participants Through a
Study Process
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 367 ---

Figure 7.5 Sample CONSORT Flow Diagram
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 368 ---

Figure 7.6 Sample Conceptual Model
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 369 ---

Figure 7.7 Sample Structural Equation Model
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 370 ---

Figure 7.8 Sample Confirmatory Factor Analysis Results Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 371 ---

Figure 7.9 Sample Path Model
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 372 ---

Figure 1

Path Analysis Model of Associations Between ASMC and Body-Related Constructs

Appearance-Related
Social Media
Consciousness (ASMC)

Time Spent on Social
Media

Note. The path analysis shows associations between ASMC and endogenous body-related variables (body esteem,
body comparison, and body surveillance), controlling for time spent on social media. Coefficients presented are
standardized linear regression coefficients.

““p<.001.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 373 ---

Figure 7.10 Sample Qualitative Research Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 374 ---

Figure 7.11 Sample Mixed Methods Research Figure
Figure 7.12 Sample Illustration of Experimental Setup
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 375 ---

Figure 7.13 Sample Illustration of Experimental Stimuli
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 376 ---

Figure 7.14 Sample Map
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 377 ---

Figure 7.15 Sample Scatterplot
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 378 ---

Figure 7.16 Sample Multidimensional Scaling Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 379 ---

Figure 3

Two-Dimensional Solution Derived From Multidimensional Scaling of Relatedness Scores

Dimension 2

2.04
oNonmoral
154
1.04
054
oPurity
0.04 r O
Authorityo OFairness Liberty
Cou nternormative
0.54
Loyalty
1
"1 T T T
-3 -2 -1 ) 1 2

Dimension 1

Note. Relatedness scores were defined as the mean likelihood judgment within category pairs. Violations
of care, authority, fairness, and loyalty and counternormative actions are quite close to one another in the

resultant two-dimensional space, whereas liberty violations, and especially purity violations and nonmoral

actions, are more distant. Model stress was .08.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 380 ---

Figure 7.17 Sample Photograph
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 381 ---

Figure 1
Example Scenes of Participant Response to Locations of Schema-Irrelevant Objects

Note. Top panel: A version of the kitchen scene using schema-irrelevant objects (walking boots,
bath towel, and teapot) in unexpected locations (right side of the floor, rail beneath table, and
stool, respectively). Middle panel: One of the possible test images (out of two) associated with the
study image depicted in the top panel used in Study 1 (shift-to-expected condition). Bottom panel:
Example participant response when the participant originally studied the image in the top panel
in the recall task of Study 2. Schema-relevant objects in expected places at study are the metal pot
and toaster; those in unexpected places are the microwave and teapot; those not present are the
fruit bowl and paper towel roll.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 382 ---

Figure 7.18 Sample Complex Multipanel Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 383 ---

Figure 7.19 Sample Event-Related Potential Figure
Figure 7.20 Sample fMRI Figure
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 384 ---

Figure 3

Brain Regions Sensitive to Ratings of Dehumanization, Liking, and Similarity to the Self

Note. Brain regions where activity is sensitive to parametric ratings of dehumanization (blue), liking (red), and similarity to the
self (green) are shown. Dehumanization and liking are thresholded at p < .05, corrected; similarity is thresholded at p < .001,
uncorrected. IFC = inferior frontal cortex; IPC = inferior parietal cortex; PC = precuneus; PCC = posterior cingulate cortex; MPFC

= medial prefrontal cortex.

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish


--- Page 385 ---

Figure 7.21 Sample Display of Genetic Material (Physical Map)
1Table entries and column headings are written in sentence case in a table but in title case if
they are referred to in the text.
2WCAG 2.0 refers to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, Version 2.0 (Web
Accessibility Initiative, 2018).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 386 ---

8
WORKS CREDITED IN THE
TEXT
Scientific knowledge represents the accomplishments of many researchers
over time. A critical part of writing in APA Style is helping readers place
your contribution in context by citing the researchers who influenced you.
In this chapter, we provide the ground rules for acknowledging how others
contributed to your work. General guidance for in-text citation is presented
first, including how to provide an appropriate level of citation and avoid
plagiarism and self-plagiarism in your writing. Specific guidance for in-text
citation follows, including formats for interviews, classroom and intranet
sources, and personal communications; in-text citations in general; and
paraphrases and direct quotations.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 387 ---

General Guidelines for Citation
8.1 Appropriate Level of Citation
Cite the work of those individuals whose ideas, theories, or research have
directly influenced your work. The works you cite provide key background
information, support or dispute your thesis, or offer critical definitions and
data. Cite only works that you have read and ideas that you have incorporated
into your writing. Cite primary sources when possible and secondary sources
sparingly (see Section 8.6). In addition to crediting the ideas of others that
you used to develop your thesis, provide documentation for all facts and
figures that are not common knowledge. Both paraphrases (see Sections
8.23–8.24) and direct quotations (see Sections 8.25–8.35) require citations. If
you reprint or adapt a table or figure (e.g., if you reproduce an image from
the internet, even if it was free or in the Creative Commons) or reprint a long
quotation or commercially copyrighted test item, you may also need to seek
permission from the copyright holder and provide a copyright attribution (see
Sections 12.14–12.18).
The number of sources you cite in your paper depends on the purpose of
your work. For most papers, cite one or two of the most representative
sources for each key point. Literature review papers, however, typically
include a more exhaustive list of references, given that the purpose of the
paper is to acquaint readers with everything that has been written on the
topic.
Avoid both undercitation and overcitation. Undercitation can lead to
plagiarism (see Section 8.2) and/or self-plagiarism (see Section 8.3). Even
when sources cannot be retrieved (e.g., because they are personal
communications; see Section 8.9), you still need to credit them in the text
(however, avoid using online sources that are no longer recoverable; see
Section 9.37). Overcitation can be distracting and is unnecessary. For
example, it is considered overcitation to repeat the same citation in every
sentence when the source and topic have not changed. Instead, when
paraphrasing a key point in more than one sentence within a paragraph, cite
the source in the first sentence in which it is relevant and do not repeat the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 388 ---

citation in subsequent sentences as long as the source remains clear and
unchanged (see Section 8.24). When the author’s name appears in the
narrative, the year can be omitted in repeated citations under certain
circumstances (see Section 8.16). Figure 8.1 provides an example of an
appropriate level of citation.
Figure 8.1 Example of an Appropriate Level of Citation
Note. The authors have provided citations to representative sources for each new idea in the
text. Common knowledge (here, the idea that some people come up with funny ideas more
easily than do others) does not require a citation.
8.2 Plagiarism
Plagiarism is the act of presenting the words, ideas, or images of another as
your own; it denies authors or creators of content the credit they are due.
Whether deliberate or unintentional, plagiarism violates ethical standards in
scholarship (see APA Ethics Code Standard 8.11, Plagiarism). Writers who
plagiarize disrespect the efforts of original authors by failing to acknowledge
their contributions, stifle further research by preventing readers from tracing
ideas back to their original sources, and unfairly disregard those who exerted
the effort to complete their own work. Writers who try to publish plagiarized
work face rejection from publication and possible censure in their place of
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 389 ---

employment. Students who plagiarize may fail the assignment or course, be
placed on academic probation, or be expelled from their institution (see also
Section 1.17).
To avoid plagiarism, provide appropriate credit to the source whenever you
do the following:
paraphrase (i.e., state in your own words) the ideas of others (see Sections
8.23–8.24)
directly quote the words of others (see Sections 8.25–8.35)
refer to data or data sets (see Section 10.9)
reprint or adapt a table or figure, even images from the internet that are
free or licensed in the Creative Commons (see Sections 12.14–12.18)
reprint a long text passage or commercially copyrighted test item (see
Sections 12.14–12.18)
For most works, appropriate credit takes the form of an author–date citation
(see Section 8.10). However, according to U.S. copyright law, authors who
wish to reprint or adapt tables, figures, and images or to reprint long
quotations or commercially copyrighted test items (see Section 12.15) must
provide more comprehensive credit in the form of a copyright attribution (see
Section 12.18) and may need permission from the copyright holder to use the
materials (see Section 12.17).
The necessity for credit extends to the ideas of others as well. For example,
authors should credit the originators of theories they refer to in their paper. If
authors model a study after one conducted by someone else, the author of the
original study should be given credit. If the rationale for a study was
suggested in someone else’s article, that person should be given credit. Given
the free exchange of ideas, which is important to the health of intellectual
discourse, authors may not be able to pinpoint exactly where the idea for their
study originated. They should make their best effort to find and acknowledge
the source(s), including any personal communications (see Section 8.9).
Although many cases of plagiarism are straightforward (e.g., passages of
text copied from another source without attribution), other cases are more
challenging to evaluate. Usually, using incorrect citations (e.g., misspelling
an author’s name, forgetting or mistyping an element in a reference list entry,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 390 ---

or citing a source in the text that does not have a corresponding reference list
entry) is not considered plagiarism if the error is minor and attributable to an
editorial oversight rather than an intentional attempt to steal someone’s ideas
or obfuscate the origin of the information (Cooper, 2016). However, such
errors may still result in deductions on an academic assignment or a request
for revision of a manuscript submitted for publication.
Publishers and educators may use plagiarism-checking software (e.g.,
iThenticate, Turnitin) to identify cases in which entire papers have been
copied, passages of specified lengths match, or a few words have been
changed but content is largely the same (the latter is known as patchwriting;
see Merriam-Webster, n.d.-a). However, human review is often necessary to
determine whether plagiarism has actually taken place. Take careful notes as
you research and write to keep track of and accurately cite your sources.
Check your work carefully to ensure that you acknowledge the words and
ideas of others with citations in the text that have corresponding reference list
entries.
Unethical writing practices other than plagiarism are also prohibited. For
example, it is unethical to fabricate citations and/or reference list entries. This
practice gives the appearance of properly credited sources, but the sources are
fictitious or untraceable; the author may have made up the information as
well as the sources, or the information may come from real works that have
not been credited. Likewise, contract cheating, in which students hire another
person to write a paper for them, is unethical. Even when the resulting work
is original (i.e., not plagiarized), these students still take credit for work that
they did not do themselves, which violates academic integrity policies, honor
codes, and ethics codes.
8.3 Self-Plagiarism
Self-plagiarism is the presentation of your own previously published work as
original; like plagiarism, self-plagiarism is unethical. Self-plagiarism
deceives readers by making it appear that more information is available on a
topic than really exists. It gives the impression that findings are more
replicable than is the case or that particular conclusions are more strongly
supported than is warranted by the evidence. It may lead to copyright
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 391 ---

violations if you publish the same work with multiple publishers (sometimes
called duplicate publication; see Section 1.16).
Some institutions may consider it self-plagiarism if a student submits a
paper written for one class to complete an assignment for another class
without permission from the current instructor; using the same paper in
multiple classes may violate the academic integrity policy, honor code, or
ethics code of the university. However, incorporating previous classwork into
one’s thesis or dissertation and building on one’s own existing writing may
be permissible; students who wish to do this should discuss their ideas with
their instructor or advisor and follow their university’s honor code, ethics
code, or academic policies when reusing their previous work.
In specific circumstances, authors may wish to duplicate their previously
used words without quotation marks or citation (e.g., in describing the details
of an instrument or an analytic approach), feeling that extensive self-
referencing is undesirable or awkward and that rewording may lead to
inaccuracies. When the duplicated material is limited in scope, this approach
is permissible.
When the duplication is more extensive, authors should cite the source of
the duplicated material. What constitutes the maximum acceptable length of
duplicated material is difficult to define but must conform to legal notions of
fair use (see Section 12.17). General guidelines for using an acceptable
amount of duplicated material are as follows:
Ensure that the core of the new document constitutes an original
contribution to knowledge in that
only the amount of previously published material necessary to
understand that contribution is included and
the material appears primarily in the discussion of theory and
methodology.
Place all duplicated material in a single paragraph or a few paragraphs,
when feasible, with a citation at the beginning or end of each paragraph.
Introduce the duplicated material with a phrase such as “as I have
previously discussed.” Do not use quotation marks or block quotation
formatting around your own duplicated material.
When you reanalyze your own previously published data, such as in a
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 392 ---

large-scale, longitudinal, or multidisciplinary project, provide sufficient
information about the project so that readers can evaluate the current
report but do not repeat every detail of the design and method. Find a
balance that involves referring readers to the earlier work using citations.
If a manuscript will receive masked review (see Section 12.7), you may need
to conceal references to your previous work until the manuscript is ready for
publication. To conceal your previous work, omit the relevant entries from
the reference list and indicate in the text where citations will be reinstated
after the review process by including “citation omitted,” or similar, in
parentheses.
An exception to the prohibition against self-plagiarism is publishing a
work of limited circulation in a venue of wider circulation. For example,
authors may publish their doctoral dissertation or master’s thesis in whole or
in part in one or more journal articles. In such cases, authors would not cite
their dissertation or thesis in the article text but rather acknowledge in the
author note that the work was based on their dissertation or thesis (see
Section 2.7). Similarly, an article based on research the authors described in
an abstract published in a conference program or proceeding does not usually
constitute duplicate publication; the author should acknowledge previous
presentation of the research in the article’s author note (see the author note of
the sample professional paper in Chapter 2 as an example). Seek clarification
from the journal editor or course instructor if you are concerned about
duplicate publication or self-plagiarism.
8.4 Correspondence Between Reference List and Text
APA Style uses the author–date citation system (see Section 8.10), in which a
brief in-text citation directs readers to a full reference list entry. Each work
cited in the text must appear in the reference list, and each work in the
reference list must be cited in the text. Ensure that the spelling of author
names and the publication dates in the reference list entries match those in the
in-text citations. The date element of a reference list entry may include the
month, season, and/or day in addition to the year; however, the corresponding
in-text citation includes only the year (see, e.g., Example 15 in Chapter 10).
There are a few exceptions to these guidelines:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 393 ---

Personal communications, which are unrecoverable sources, are cited in
the text only (see Section 8.9).
General mentions of whole websites or periodicals (see Section 8.22) and
common software and apps (see Section 10.10) in the text do not require a
citation or reference list entry.
The source of an epigraph does not usually appear in the reference list
(see Section 8.35).
Quotations from your research participants can be presented and discussed
in the text but do not need citations or reference list entries (see Section
8.36).
References included in a meta-analysis, which are marked with an asterisk
in the reference list, may be cited in the text (or not) at the author’s
discretion (see Section 9.52).
8.5 Use of the Published Version or Archival Version
Multiple versions of the same work might coexist on the internet, and you
should cite the version of the work you used. Ideally, use and cite the final,
published version of a work (see Chapter 10, Examples 1–3). However, if
you used the advance online version (see Chapter 10, Example 7), the in-
press version (see Chapter 10, Example 8), or the final peer-reviewed
manuscript accepted for publication (but before it was typeset or copyedited;
see Chapter 10, Example 73), cite that version. The final peer-reviewed
manuscript as accepted for publication might be available from a variety of
places, including a personal website, an employer’s server, an institutional
repository, a reference manager, or an author social network.
Informally published works, such as those in a preprint archive (e.g.,
PsyArXiv) or an institutional repository or database (e.g., ERIC), can also be
cited (see Chapter 10, Examples 73–74) when these are the version used.
Draft manuscripts (unpublished, in preparation, or submitted) can be cited
when the draft is the most current version of the work (see Chapter 10,
Examples 70–72). When you cite a draft manuscript, in-press article, advance
online publication, or informally published work in your paper, ensure you
have the most up-to-date publication information for these works and update
the reference list entry if necessary before you submit your paper. Publishers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 394 ---

label advance online publications in various ways (e.g., “online first
publication,” “advance online publication,” “epub ahead of print”);
standardize this label to “advance online publication” for an APA Style
reference list entry (see Chapter 10, Example 7).
8.6 Primary and Secondary Sources
In scholarly work, a primary source reports original content; a secondary
source refers to content first reported in another source. Cite secondary
sources sparingly—for instance, when the original work is out of print,
unavailable, or available only in a language that you do not understand. If
possible, as a matter of good scholarly practice, find the primary source, read
it, and cite it directly rather than citing a secondary source. For example,
rather than citing an instructor’s lecture or a textbook or encyclopedia that in
turn cites original research, find, read, and cite the original research directly
(unless an instructor has directed you to do otherwise).
When citing a secondary source, provide a reference list entry for the
secondary source that you used. In the text, identify the primary source and
then write “as cited in” the secondary source that you used. If the year of
publication of the primary source is known, also include it in the text. For
example, if you read a work by Lyon et al. (2014) in which Rabbitt (1982)
was cited, and you were unable to read Rabbitt’s work yourself, cite Rabbitt’s
work as the original source, followed by Lyon et al.’s work as the secondary
source. Only Lyon et al.’s work appears in the reference list.
(Rabbitt, 1982, as cited in Lyon et al., 2014)
If the year of the primary source is unknown, omit it from the in-text citation.
Allport’s diary (as cited in Nicholson, 2003)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 395 ---

Works Requiring Special Approaches to Citation
8.7 Interviews
An interview is a dialogue or an exchange of information between people.
Interviews used as sources can be classified into three categories: published
interviews, personal interviews, and research participant interviews.
Published interviews appear in a variety of places—for example, in a
magazine, newspaper, recorded radio broadcast, podcast episode,
YouTube video, TV show, or transcript of a video or audio recording. To
cite a published interview, follow the format for the reference type (e.g.,
magazine article, podcast episode, radio broadcast; see Chapter 10,
Examples 15 and 95, for interviews published in a magazine article and a
digital archive, respectively). The person being interviewed will not
necessarily appear in the author element of the reference; when this is
case, integrate the person’s name into the narrative of the sentence if
desired (see Chapter 10, Example 88).
Personal interviews are those you conduct as a means of obtaining
information to support a key point in your paper (e.g., an email to an
author inquiring about their published work). Because readers cannot
recover this type of interview, cite it as a personal communication (see
Section 8.9).
Research participant interviews are those you conducted as part of your
methodology. They do not require a citation in APA Style because you do
not cite your own work in the paper in which it is being first reported.
However, information gathered from research participant interviews can
be presented and discussed in a paper according to the guidelines in
Section 8.36.
8.8 Classroom or Intranet Resources
Some works are recoverable only by certain audiences, which determines
how they are cited. For example, a student writing a paper for a course
assignment might cite works from the classroom website or learning
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 396 ---

management system (LMS; e.g., Canvas, Blackboard, Brightspace, Moodle,
Sakai), or an employee might cite resources from the company intranet when
writing an internal company report. These sources are recoverable by the
instructor and fellow students or by other employees of the company but not
the general public.
When the audience you are writing for can retrieve the works you used,
cite the works using the formats shown in Chapter 10, which are organized
according to reference group and category. For example, to cite a recorded
lecture or PowerPoint presentation available from a classroom website or
LMS for a student assignment, follow the format shown in Chapter 10,
Example 102. The source element of these references includes the name of
the classroom website or LMS and the URL (which for sites requiring users
to log in should be the homepage or login page URL). Likewise, for a report
on a company intranet, follow the report formats shown in Section 10.4.
However, if the work is for professional publication or intended for a wider
audience who will not have access to these sources, cite the sources as
personal communications (see Section 8.9).
8.9 Personal Communications
Works that cannot be recovered by readers (i.e., works without a source
element; see Section 9.4) are cited in the text as personal communications.
Personal communications include emails, text messages, online chats or
direct messages, personal interviews, telephone conversations, live speeches,
unrecorded classroom lectures, memos, letters, messages from nonarchived
discussion groups or online bulletin boards, and so on.
Use a personal communication citation only when a recoverable source is
not available. For example, if you learned about a topic via a classroom
lecture, it would be preferable to cite the research on which the instructor
based the lecture. However, if the lecture contained original content not
published elsewhere, cite the lecture as a personal communication. When
communications are recoverable only in an archive (e.g., a presidential
library), cite them as archival materials (see the APA Style website at
https://apastyle.apa.org for more). Do not use a personal communication
citation for quotes or information from participants whom you interviewed as
part of your own original research (see Section 8.36).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 397 ---

Citing Personal Communications in the Text. Because readers cannot
retrieve the information in personal communications, personal
communications are not included in the reference list; they are cited in the
text only. Give the initial(s) and surname of the communicator, and provide
as exact a date as possible, using the following formats:
Narrative citation: E.-M. Paradis (personal communication, August 8, 2019)
Parenthetical citation: (T. Nguyen, personal communication, February 24,
2020)
Citing Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions of Indigenous Peoples.
The manner of citing Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions (other terms
are “Traditional Stories” and “Oral Histories”) of Indigenous Peoples varies
depending on whether and how the information has been recorded—only
certain cases use a variation of the personal communication citation. If the
information has been recorded and is recoverable by readers (e.g., video,
audio, interview transcript, book, article), cite it in the text and include a
reference list entry in the correct format for that type of source (see Section
10.12, Example 90, for a recording on YouTube; see Section 10.13, Example
95, for a recorded interview).
Examine published works carefully (especially older works) to ensure that
the information about Indigenous Peoples is accurate and appropriate to share
before citing those works. Likewise, work closely with Indigenous people to
ensure that material is appropriate to publish (e.g., some stories are told only
at certain times of year or by certain people and may not be appropriate to
publish in a journal article) and that your wording accurately mirrors and
maintains the integrity of their perspectives (see Younging, 2018, for more on
the nature of collaboration with Indigenous people). Likewise, because
Indigenous cultural heritage belongs to Indigenous Peoples in perpetuity,
matters concerning copyright and authorship may arise depending on the
scope and nature of the material being presented (see Younging, 2018, for
more).
Capitalize most terms related to Indigenous Peoples. These include
names of specific groups (e.g., Cherokee, Cree, Ojibwe) and words related
to Indigenous culture (e.g., Creation, the Creator, Elder, Oral Tradition,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 398 ---

Traditional Knowledge, Vision Quest). The capitalization is intentional and
demonstrates respect for Indigenous perspectives (for more, see
International Journal of Indigenous Health, n.d.; Younging, 2018).
To describe Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions that are not recorded
(and therefore are not recoverable by readers), provide as much detail in the
in-text citation as is necessary to describe the content and to contextualize the
origin of the information. Because there is no recoverable source, a reference
list entry is not used.
If the purpose of your paper is to present the Oral History of one or more
of your research participants, follow the guidelines in Section 8.36 for
including quotations from research participants. If the paper is published, this
Oral History then becomes part of the recorded scholarly literature and can
thus be cited by others using standard formats.
If you spoke with an Indigenous person directly to learn information (but
they were not a research participant), use a variation of the personal
communication citation: Provide the person’s full name and the nation or
specific Indigenous group to which they belong, as well as their location or
other details about them as relevant, followed by the words “personal
communication,” and the date of the communication. Provide an exact date of
correspondence if available; if correspondence took place over a period of
time, provide a more general date or a range of dates. (The date refers to
when you consulted with the person, not to when the information originated.)
Ensure that the person agrees to have their name included in your paper and
confirms the accuracy and appropriateness of the information you present.
We spoke with Anna Grant (Haida Nation, lives in Vancouver, British
Columbia, Canada, personal communication, April 2019) about traditional
understandings of the world by First Nations Peoples in Canada. She
described . . .
If you are an Indigenous person and are sharing your own experiences or the
previously unrecorded Traditional Knowledge or Oral Tradition of your
people, describe yourself in the text (e.g., what nation you belong to, where
you live) to contextualize the origin of the information you are sharing. Do
not use a personal communication citation or provide a reference list entry
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 399 ---

because you do not need to cite personal information. It is often useful to
collaborate with other Indigenous people to address any questions that may
arise. For more on the terms to use when describing Indigenous Peoples, see
Section 5.7.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 400 ---

In-Text Citations
8.10 Author–Date Citation System
Use the author–date citation system to cite references in the text in APA
Style. In this system, each work used in a paper has two parts: an in-text
citation and a corresponding reference list entry (see Figure 8.2). The in-text
citation appears within the body of the paper (or in a table, figure, footnote,
or appendix) and briefly identifies the cited work by its author and date of
publication. This in-text citation enables readers to locate the corresponding
entry in the alphabetical reference list at the end of the paper. Each reference
list entry provides the author, date, title, and source of the work cited in the
paper and enables readers to identify and retrieve the work (see Chapter 9 for
how to create and order reference list entries).
Figure 8.2 Correspondence Between a Reference List Entry and an In-Text
Citation
Note. The four elements of a reference list entry include the author (in purple), the date (in
blue), the title (in yellow), and the source (in green). The in-text citations that correspond to
this reference include the last name of the author and year of publication, which match the
information in the reference list entry.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 401 ---

In an in-text citation, provide the surname(s) of the author(s) or the
name(s) of the group author(s). Do not include suffixes such as “Jr.” in the
in-text citation. (For authors with only one name or only a username, see
Section 9.8.) The list of authors in an in-text citation may be shortened in
certain cases (for individual authors, see Section 8.17; for group authors, see
Section 8.21). To create an in-text citation for a work with an unknown or
anonymous author, see Section 8.14.
The date in the in-text citation should match the date in the reference list
entry. Use only the year in the in-text citation, even if the reference list entry
contains a more specific date (e.g., year, month, and day). For works with no
date, use “n.d.” in the in-text citation (see also Section 9.17); for works that
have been accepted for publication but have not yet been published, use “in
press.” Do not use phrases like “in progress” for draft manuscripts; instead,
use the year the draft was written (see Section 10.8).
Each in-text citation must correspond to only one reference list entry.
Avoid ambiguity when abbreviating the list of authors (see Sections 8.17 and
8.21), when multiple works have the same author(s) and date (see Section
8.19), and when multiple first authors share the same surname (see Section
8.20).
8.11 Parenthetical and Narrative Citations
In-text citations have two formats: parenthetical and narrative. In
parenthetical citations, the author name and publication date (or equivalent
information; see Section 9.12) appear in parentheses. In narrative citations,
this information is incorporated into the text as part of the sentence.
Parenthetical Citation. Both the author and the date, separated by a comma,
appear in parentheses for a parenthetical citation. A parenthetical citation can
appear within or at the end of a sentence. When a parenthetical citation is at
the end of a sentence, put the period or other end punctuation after the closing
parenthesis.
Falsely balanced news coverage can distort the public’s perception of
expert consensus on an issue (Koehler, 2016).
If other text appears with the parenthetical citation, use commas around
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 402 ---

the year.
(see Koehler, 2016, for more detail)
When text and a citation appear together in parentheses, use a semicolon
to separate the citation from the text; do not use parentheses within
parentheses.
(e.g., falsely balanced news coverage; Koehler, 2016)
Narrative Citation. The author appears in running text and the date appears
in parentheses immediately after the author name for a narrative citation.
Koehler (2016) noted the dangers of falsely balanced news coverage.
In rare cases, the author and date might both appear in the narrative. In
this case, do not use parentheses.
In 2016, Koehler noted the dangers of falsely balanced news coverage.
8.12 Citing Multiple Works
When citing multiple works parenthetically, place the citations in alphabetical
order, separating them with semicolons. Listing both parenthetical in-text
citations and reference list entries in alphabetical order helps readers locate
and retrieve works because they are listed in the same order in both places.
(Adams et al., 2019; Shumway & Shulman, 2015; Westinghouse, 2017)
Arrange two or more works by the same authors by year of publication.
Place citations with no date first, followed by works with dates in
chronological order; in-press citations appear last. Give the authors’
surnames once; for each subsequent work, give only the date.
(Department of Veterans Affairs, n.d., 2017a, 2017b, 2019)
Zhou (n.d., 2000, 2016, in press)
In the case of multiple works in which some author names have been
abbreviated to “et al.” (see Section 8.17), place the citations in
chronological order (regardless of the order in which they appear in the
reference list).
(Carraway et al., 2013, 2014, 2019)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 403 ---

To highlight the work(s) most directly relevant to your point in a given
sentence, place those citations first within parentheses in alphabetical
order and then insert a semicolon and a phrase, such as “see also,” before
the first of the remaining citations, which should also be in alphabetical
order. This strategy allows authors to emphasize, for example, the most
recent or most important research on a topic, which would not be reflected
by alphabetical order alone.
(Sampson & Hughes, 2020; see also Augustine, 2017; Melara et al., 2018;
Pérez, 2014)
Readers may find a long string of citations difficult to parse, especially if
they are using assistive technology such as a screen reader; therefore,
include only those citations needed to support your immediate point (for
more on appropriate level of citation, see Section 8.1).
If multiple sources are cited within the narrative of a sentence, they can
appear in any order.
Suliman (2018), Gutiérrez (2012, 2017), and Medina and Reyes (2019)
examined . . .
8.13 Citing Specific Parts of a Source
To cite a specific part of a source, provide an author–date citation for the
work plus information about the specific part. There are many possible parts
to cite, including
pages, paragraphs, sections, tables, figures, supplemental materials, or
footnotes from an article, book, report, webpage, or other work;
chapters, forewords, or other sections of authored books;
time stamps of videos or audiobooks; and
slide numbers in PowerPoint presentations.
For religious and classical works with canonically numbered parts common
across editions (e.g., books, chapters, verses, lines, cantos), cite the part
instead of a page number (see Section 9.42).
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2019, p. 10)
(Shimamura, 2017, Chapter 3)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 404 ---

(Armstrong, 2015, pp. 3–17)
(Shadid, 2020, paras. 2–3)
(Kovačič & Horvat, 2019, Table 1)
(Thompson, 2020, Slide 7)
(Beck Institute for Cognitive Behavior Therapy, 2012, 1:30:40)
(King James Bible, 1769/2017, 1 Cor. 13:1)
(Aristotle, ca. 350 B.C.E./1994, Part IV)
(Shakespeare, 1623/1995, 1.3.36–37)
In the reference list, provide an entry for the entire work (not only the part
that you used).
It is possible to cite a specific part of a source whether you are
paraphrasing (see Sections 8.23–8.24) or directly quoting (see Sections
8.25–8.27). For further guidance on quoting works without page numbers
(e.g., webpages, websites, audiovisual works) and religious and classical
works with canonically numbered sections, see Section 8.28.
8.14 Unknown or Anonymous Author
When the author of a work is not named, the author may be unknown (i.e., no
author is listed on the work, as with a religious work) or identified
specifically as “Anonymous.” For works with an unknown author (see
Section 9.12), include the title and year of publication in the in-text citation
(note that the title moves to the author position in the reference list entry as
well). If the title of the work is italicized in the reference, also italicize the
title in the in-text citation. If the title of the work is not italicized in the
reference, use double quotation marks around the title in the in-text citation.
Capitalize these titles in the text using title case (see Section 6.17), even
though sentence case is used in the reference list entry. If the title is long,
shorten it for the in-text citation.
Book with no author: (Interpersonal Skills, 2019)
Magazine article with no author: (“Understanding Sensory Memory,” 2018)
When the author of a work is overtly designated as “Anonymous” (see
Section 9.12), “Anonymous” takes the place of the author name in the in-text
citation.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 405 ---

(Anonymous, 2017)
8.15 Translated, Reprinted, Republished, and Reissued Dates
References to translated, reprinted, republished, or reissued works (see
Sections 9.39–9.41) contain two dates in the in-text citation: the year of
publication of the original work and the year of publication of the translation,
reprint, republication, or reissue. Separate the years with a slash, with the
earlier year first (see Chapter 10, Example 29).
Freud (1900/1953)
(Piaget, 1966/2000)
8.16 Omitting the Year in Repeated Narrative Citations
In general, include the author and date in every in-text citation. If you need to
repeat a citation (see Section 8.1), repeat the entire citation; do not, for
example, include only a page number (the abbreviation “ibid.” is not used in
APA Style). The year can be omitted from a citation only when multiple
narrative citations to a work appear within a single paragraph (see Figure 8.3
for an example).
Figure 8.3  Example of Repeated Narrative Citations With the Year Omitted
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 406 ---

Once you have provided a narrative citation to a work in a paragraph, do
not repeat the year in subsequent narrative citations in that same paragraph.
Follow this guideline with each paragraph (i.e., include the year in the first
narrative citation in a new paragraph). Include the year in every parenthetical
citation.
However, if you cite multiple works by the same author or authors,
regardless of the publication years, include the date in every in-text citation to
prevent ambiguity. For example, if you cite Mohammed and Mahfouz (2017)
and Mohammed and Mahfouz (2019), include the year with every citation,
even when one of the references is cited multiple times in a single paragraph.
8.17 Number of Authors to Include in In-Text Citations
The format of the author element of the in-text citation changes depending on
the number of authors and is abbreviated in some cases. See Table 8.1 for
examples of the basic in-text citation styles.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 407 ---

For a work with one or two authors, include the author name(s) in every
citation.
For a work with three or more authors, include the name of only the first
author plus “et al.” in every citation, including the first citation, unless
doing so would create ambiguity (see Section 8.18).
Table 8.1 Basic In-Text Citation Styles
Author type Parenthetical citation Narrative citation
One author (Luna, 2020) Luna (2020)
Two authors (Salas & D’Agostino, 2020) Salas and D’Agostino (2020)
Three or more authors (Martin et al., 2020) Martin et al. (2020)
Group author with
abbreviation
  First citation a (National Institute of Mental Health
[NIMH], 2020)
National Institute of Mental Health
(NIMH, 2020)
  Subsequent citations (NIMH, 2020) NIMH (2020)
Group author without
abbreviation
(Stanford University, 2020) Stanford University (2020)
a Define the abbreviation for a group author only once in the text, choosing either the parenthetical or the narrative
format. Thereafter, use the abbreviation for all mentions of the group in the text (see Section 8.21).
In parenthetical citations, use an ampersand (&) between names for a work
with two authors or before the last author when all names must be included to
avoid ambiguity (see Section 8.18). In narrative citations, spell out the word
“and.”
(Jöreskog & Sörbom, 2007)
Eifert and Yildiz (2018)
In tables and figures, use an ampersand between names in both parenthetical
and narrative citations.
The same guidelines apply when any of the authors are groups. For
example, if a work is authored by three groups, the in-text citation would
include the name of the first group plus “et al.”
(American Educational Research Association et al., 2014)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 408 ---

8.18 Avoiding Ambiguity in In-Text Citations
Sometimes multiple works with three or more authors and the same
publication year shorten to the same in-text citation form when the guidelines
described in Section 8.17 are applied, which creates ambiguity. To avoid
ambiguity, when the in-text citations of multiple works with three or more
authors shorten to the same form, write out as many names as needed to
distinguish the references, and abbreviate the rest of the names to “et al.” in
every citation. For example, two works have the following authors:
Kapoor, Bloom, Montez, Warner, and Hill (2017)
Kapoor, Bloom, Zucker, Tang, Köroğlu, L’Enfant, Kim, and Daly (2017)
Both these citations shorten to Kapoor et al. (2017). To avoid ambiguity
when citing them both in your paper, cite them as follows:
Kapoor, Bloom, Montez, et al. (2017)
Kapoor, Bloom, Zucker, et al. (2017)
Because “et al.” is plural (meaning “and others”), it cannot stand for only one
name. When only the final author is different, spell out all names in every
citation.
Hasan, Liang, Kahn, and Jones-Miller (2015)
Hasan, Liang, Kahn, and Weintraub (2015)
8.19 Works With the Same Author and Same Date
When multiple references have an identical author (or authors) and
publication year, include a lowercase letter after the year (see Section 9.47).
The year–letter combination is used in both the in-text citation and the
reference list entry. Use only the year with a letter in the in-text citation, even
if the reference list entry contains a more specific date.
(Judge & Kammeyer-Mueller, 2012a)
Judge and Kammeyer-Mueller (2012b)
(Sifuentes, n.d.-a, n.d.-b)
8.20 Authors With the Same Surname
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 409 ---

If the first authors of multiple references share the same surname but have
different initials, include the first authors’ initials in all in-text citations, even
if the year of publication differs. Initials help avoid confusion within the text
and help readers locate the correct entry in the reference list (see Section
9.48).
(J. M. Taylor & Neimeyer, 2015; T. Taylor, 2014)
If the first authors of multiple references share the same surname and the
same initials, cite the works in the standard author–date format.
Sometimes people publish under multiple names because of a name change
(e.g., transgender authors, authors with a change in marital status). It is
seldom relevant to note that two names refer to the same person. When a
given name has changed, include initials with in-text citations only when the
initials are different. If it is necessary to clarify that two names refer to the
same person (e.g., to avoid confusion when reviewing an author’s body of
work), consult the person and respect their preferences in whether and how to
address the name change. If it is necessary to clarify that two names refer to
different people to avoid confusion, include the first name of the first author
in the in-text citation: “Sarah Williams (2019) stated X, whereas Shonda
Williams (2020) stated Y.”
If multiple authors within a single reference share the same surname, the
initials are not needed in the in-text citation; cite the work in the standard
author–date format.
(Chen & Chen, 2019)
8.21 Abbreviating Group Authors
If a reference has a group author, the name of the group can sometimes be
abbreviated—for example, “American Psychological Association” can be
abbreviated to “APA.” You are not obligated to abbreviate the name of a
group author, but you can if the abbreviation is well-known, will help avoid
cumbersome repetition, or will appear at least three times in the paper.
As with other abbreviations (see Section 6.25), provide the full name of
the group on first mention in the text, followed by the abbreviation.
If the group name first appears in a narrative citation, include the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 410 ---

abbreviation before the year in parentheses, separated with a comma.
The American Psychological Association (APA, 2017) described . . .
If the group name first appears in a parenthetical citation, include the
abbreviation in square brackets, followed by a comma and the year.
(American Psychological Association [APA], 2017)
In the reference list entry, do not abbreviate the group author name.
Instead, spell out the full name of the group as presented in the source.
American Psychological Association. (2017, January). Understanding and
overcoming opioid abuse. https://www.apa.org/helpcenter/opioid-
abuse.aspx
If several references have the same group author, introduce the
abbreviation only once in the text.
In the rare case that two different groups abbreviate to the same form
(e.g., both the American Psychological Association and the American
Psychiatric Association abbreviate to “APA”) and you cite both groups in
your paper, spell out each name every time to avoid confusion.
If a work has three or more group authors, the in-text citation is also
shortened as described in Section 8.17.
8.22 General Mentions of Websites, Periodicals, and Common
Software and Apps
For a general mention of a website with no indication of particular
information or a specific page from that site, no reference list entry or in-text
citation is needed. Provide the name of the website in the text and include the
URL in parentheses. For example, if you used a website to create a survey,
mention the website in the text.
We created our survey using Qualtrics (https://www.qualtrics.com).
A variation of this technique is also used for general mentions of periodicals.
For example, if you want to include the name of a journal you searched
during a meta-analysis, provide the journal title (in italic) using title case.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 411 ---

I searched the Journal of Abnormal Psychology for studies to include in the
meta-analysis.
Common software and mobile apps are treated in a similar manner; in most
cases, it is sufficient to mention the name of the program or app and the
version used (if known) in the text, without providing an in-text citation or
reference list entry (see Section 10.10). Likewise, for apparatuses, provide a
reference for specialized products only (see Section 10.10).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 412 ---

Paraphrases and Quotations
8.23 Principles of Paraphrasing
A paraphrase restates another’s idea (or your own previously published idea)
in your own words. Paraphrasing is an effective writing strategy because it
allows authors to summarize and synthesize information from one or more
sources, focus on significant information, and compare and contrast relevant
details. Published authors paraphrase their sources most of the time, rather
than directly quoting the sources; student authors should emulate this practice
by paraphrasing more than directly quoting. Use a professional tone when
describing a concept, idea, or finding in your own words (see Section 4.7).
Cite the work you paraphrase in the text using either the narrative or
parenthetical format (see Section 8.11).
Avid readers of science fiction and fantasy books are more likely than
readers of other genres to believe in futuristic scenarios—for example, that
it will someday be possible to travel to other galaxies or power a car on
solar energy (Black et al., 2018).
Although it is not required to provide a page or paragraph number in the
citation for a paraphrase, you may include one in addition to the author and
year when it would help interested readers locate the relevant passage within
a long or complex work (e.g., a book).
Webster-Stratton (2016) described a case example of a 4-year-old girl who
showed an insecure attachment to her mother; in working with the family
dyad, the therapist focused on increasing the mother’s empathy for her
child (pp. 152–153).
The guidelines in this section pertain to when authors read a primary source
and paraphrase it themselves. If you read a paraphrase of a primary source in
a published work and want to cite that source, it is best to read and cite the
primary source directly if possible; if not, use a secondary source citation (see
Section 8.6).
8.24 Long Paraphrases
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 413 ---

A paraphrase may continue for several sentences. In such cases, cite the work
being paraphrased on first mention. Once the work has been cited, it is not
necessary to repeat the citation as long as the context of the writing makes it
clear that the same work continues to be paraphrased (see Figure 8.4 for an
example). The citation may be either parenthetical or narrative; if you select
the narrative approach and repeat the author names in the narrative of
subsequent sentences, the year of the work can often be omitted (see Section
8.16).
Figure 8.4  Example of a Long Paraphrase With a Single In-Text Citation
If the paraphrase continues into a new paragraph, reintroduce the citation.
If the paraphrase incorporates multiple sources or switches among sources,
repeat the citation so the source is clear (see Figure 8.5 for an example). Read
your sentences carefully to ensure you have cited sources appropriately.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 414 ---

Figure 8.5  Example of Repeated Citations Necessary to Clarify Sources
Note. In this passage, some works are cited multiple times to support multiple points. It is
necessary to repeat these citations because different combinations of works support different
ideas—the sources change and thus must be made clear to readers. If all ideas had the same
sources, it would not be necessary to repeat the citations.
8.25 Principles of Direct Quotation
A direct quotation reproduces words verbatim from another work or from
your own previously published work. It is best to paraphrase sources (see
Sections 8.23–8.24) rather than directly quoting them because paraphrasing
allows you to fit material to the context of your paper and writing style. Use
direct quotations rather than paraphrasing when reproducing an exact
definition (see example in Section 6.22), when an author has said something
memorably or succinctly, or when you want to respond to exact wording
(e.g., something someone said). Instructors, programs, editors, and publishers
may establish limits on the use of direct quotations. Consult with your
instructor or editor if you are concerned that you may have too much quoted
material in your paper.
When quoting directly, always provide the author, year, and page number
of the quotation in the in-text citation in either parenthetical or narrative
format (see Section 8.11). To indicate a single page, use the abbreviation “p.”
(e.g., p. 25, p. S41, p. e221); for multiple pages, use the abbreviation “pp.”
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 415 ---

and separate the page range with an en dash (e.g., pp. 34–36). If pages are
discontinuous, use a comma between the page numbers (e.g., pp. 67, 72). If
the work does not have page numbers, provide another way for the reader to
locate the quotation (see Section 8.28).
The format of a direct quotation depends on its length (fewer than 40
words vs. 40 words or more; see Sections 8.26–8.27). Regardless of quotation
length, do not insert an ellipsis at the beginning and/or end of a quotation
unless the original source includes an ellipsis. If you need to make changes to
a direct quotation, see Sections 8.30 and 8.31. For other uses of quotation
marks, such as when presenting verbatim instructions to participants or
quotations from research participants, see Sections 6.7 and 8.36, respectively.
To reproduce material that is already a direct quotation in the work you are
citing, see Section 8.33.
8.26 Short Quotations (Fewer Than 40 Words)
If a quotation consists of fewer than 40 words, treat it as a short quotation:
Incorporate it into the text and enclose it within double quotation marks. For
a direct quotation, always include a full citation (parenthetical or narrative) in
the same sentence as the quotation. Place a parenthetical citation either
immediately after the quotation or at the end of the sentence. For a narrative
citation, include the author and year in the sentence and then place the page
number or other location information in parentheses after the quotation; if the
quotation precedes the narrative citation, put the page number or location
information after the year and a comma.
If the citation appears at the end of a sentence, put the end punctuation
after the closing parenthesis for the citation. If the quotation includes
citations, see Section 8.32; if the quotation includes material already in
quotation marks, see Section 8.33. Place periods and commas within closing
single or double quotation marks. Place other punctuation marks inside
quotation marks only when they are part of the quoted material.
Short quotations can be presented in a variety of ways, as shown in Table
8.2.
Table 8.2 Examples of Direct Quotations Cited in the Text
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 416 ---

Correct Incorrect Rationale
Effective teams can be difficult to
describe because “high performance
along one domain does not translate
to high performance along another”
(Ervin et al., 2018, p. 470).
Effective teams can be difficult to
describe because “high performance
along one domain does not translate
to high performance along another.”
(Ervin et al., 2018, p. 470)
The period marking
the end of a
sentence should
follow the citation,
not precede it.
“Even smart, educated, emotionally
stable adults believe superstitions that
they recognize are not rational,” as
exemplified by the existence of
people who knock on wood for good
luck (Risen, 2016, p. 202).
“Even smart, educated, emotionally
stable adults believe superstitions
that they recognize are not rational
(Risen, 2016, p. 202),” as exemplified
by the existence of people who knock
on wood for good luck.
The citation should
be outside the
quotation marks, not
within them.
Biebel et al. (2018) noted that
“incorporating the voice of students
with psychiatric disabilities into
supported education services can
increase access, involvement, and
retention” (p. 299).
Biebel et al. (2018) noted that
“incorporating the voice of students
with psychiatric disabilities into
supported education services can
increase access, involvement, and
retention.” (p. 299)
The period marking
the end of the
sentence should
follow the page
number, not precede
it.
“Some people are hilarious, others
are painfully unfunny, and most are
somewhere in between,” wrote
Nusbaum et al. (2017, p. 231) in their
exploration of humor.
“Some people are hilarious, others
are painfully unfunny, and most are
somewhere in between,” (p. 231)
wrote Nusbaum et al. (2017) in their
exploration of humor.
The page number
should be within the
same parentheses
as the year when the
quotation precedes
the narrative citation.
The item read, “What were the best
aspects of the program for you?”
(Shayden et al., 2018, p. 304).
The item read, “What were the best
aspects of the program for you”?
(Shayden et al., 2018, p. 304).
The question mark
that ends the
quotation should
appear within the
quotation marks.
In 2018, Soto argued that “more
similar stimuli, such as those coming
from the same modality, produce
more configural processing” (p. 598).
In 2018, Soto argued that “more
similar stimuli, such as those coming
from the same modality, produce
more configural processing” (Soto,
2018, p. 598).
It is not necessary to
repeat the author
and year within
parentheses when
they already appear
in the narrative.
8.27 Block Quotations (40 Words or More)
If a quotation contains 40 words or more, treat it as a block quotation. Do not
use quotation marks to enclose a block quotation. Start a block quotation on a
new line and indent the whole block 0.5 in. from the left margin. If there are
additional paragraphs within the quotation, indent the first line of each
subsequent paragraph an additional 0.5 in. Double-space the entire block
quotation; do not add extra space before or after it. Either (a) cite the source
in parentheses after the quotation’s final punctuation or (b) cite the author and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 417 ---

year in the narrative before the quotation and place only the page number in
parentheses after the quotation’s final punctuation. Do not add a period after
the closing parenthesis in either case.
Block quotation with parenthetical citation:
Researchers have studied how people talk to themselves:
Inner speech is a paradoxical phenomenon. It is an experience that is
central to many people’s everyday lives, and yet it presents considerable
challenges to any effort to study it scientifically. Nevertheless, a wide
range of methodologies and approaches have combined to shed light on
the subjective experience of inner speech and its cognitive and neural
underpinnings. (Alderson-Day & Fernyhough, 2015, p. 957)
Block quotation with narrative citation:
Flores et al. (2018) described how they addressed potential researcher bias
when working with an intersectional community of transgender people of
color:
Everyone on the research team belonged to a stigmatized group but also
held privileged identities. Throughout the research process, we attended
to the ways in which our privileged and oppressed identities may have
influenced the research process, findings, and presentation of results. (p.
311)
Block quotation consisting of two paragraphs:
Regarding implications for chronic biases in expectation formation,
in order to accurately estimate whether people are likely to form positive
or negative expectations on any given occasion, it is necessary to go
beyond simply considering chronic individual differences and identify the
factors that make people more likely to form expectations in line with one
bias or the other.
The present research sheds light on this issue by identifying a crucial
distinction in the operation of these two trait biases in expectation
formation. Specifically, people’s valence weighting biases and self-beliefs
about the future appear to shape expectations via qualitatively distinct
processes. (Niese et al., 2019, p. 210)
If the block quotation includes citations, see Section 8.32; if the block
quotation includes material already in quotation marks, see Section 8.33.
8.28 Direct Quotation of Material Without Page Numbers
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 418 ---

Textual Works. To directly quote from written material that does not contain
page numbers (e.g., webpages and websites, some ebooks), provide readers
with another way of locating the quoted passage. Any of the following
approaches is acceptable; use the approach that will best help readers find the
quotation:
Provide a heading or section name.
For people with osteoarthritis, “painful joints should be moved through a full
range of motion every day to maintain flexibility and to slow deterioration of
cartilage” (Gecht-Silver & Duncombe, 2015, Osteoarthritis section).
Provide an abbreviated heading or section name in quotation marks to
indicate the abbreviation if the full heading or section name is too long or
unwieldy to cite in full. In the next example, the original heading was
“What Can You Do to Prevent Kidney Failure?” and the items are quoted
separately because they originally appeared as part of a bulleted list.
To prevent kidney failure, patients should “get active,” “quit smoking,” and
“take medications as directed” (Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, 2017, “What Can You Do” section).
Provide a paragraph number (count the paragraphs manually if they are
not numbered).
People planning for retirement need more than just money—they also
“need to stockpile their emotional reserves” to ensure adequate support
from family and friends (Chamberlin, 2014, para. 1).
Provide a heading or section name in combination with a paragraph
number.
Music and language are intertwined in the brain such that “people who are
better at rhythmic memory skills tend to excel at language skills as well”
(DeAngelis, 2018, Musical Forays section, para. 4).
Do not include Kindle location numbers with in-text citations. Instead,
provide the page number (which is available in many Kindle books,
especially those based on print editions) or use the methods described in this
section to create a page number alternative.
Note that the name of the section or other part of the work will not
necessarily appear in the reference list entry for the work. For example, if you
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 419 ---

cite a particular section of a webpage or website in the text, the reference list
entry should be for the page you used, not for only that section of the page.
Audiovisual Works. To directly quote from an audiovisual work (e.g.,
audiobook, YouTube video, TED Talk, TV show), provide a time stamp for
the beginning of the quotation in place of a page number.
People make “sweeping inferences and judgments from body language”
(Cuddy, 2012, 2:12).
Works With Canonically Numbered Sections. To directly quote from
material with canonically numbered sections (e.g., religious or classical
works; see also Section 9.42 and Chapter 10, Examples 35–37), use the name
of the book, chapter, verse, line, and/or canto instead of a page number.
The person vowed to “set me as a seal upon thine heart” (King James
Bible, 1769/2017, Song of Solomon 8:6).
For plays, cite the act, scene, and line(s). In the following example, “1.3.36–
37” refers to Act 1, Scene 3, Lines 36 and 37.
In Much Ado About Nothing, Don John said, “In the meantime / let me be
that I am and seek not to alter me” (Shakespeare, 1623/1995, 1.3.36–37).
8.29 Accuracy of Quotations
Direct quotations must be accurate. Except as noted here and in Sections 8.30
and 8.31, the quotation must match the wording, spelling, and interior
punctuation of the original source, even if the source is incorrect. If any
incorrect spelling, punctuation, or grammar in the source might confuse
readers, insert the word “[sic],” italicized and in brackets, immediately after
the error in the quotation. (See Section 8.31 regarding the use of square
brackets to clarify meaning in quotations.) A quotation that includes an error
may be distracting, so consider paraphrasing instead. When quoting, always
check your paper against the source to ensure that there are no discrepancies.
Nowak (2019) wrote that “people have an obligation to care for there [sic]
pets” (p. 52).
8.30 Changes to a Quotation Requiring No Explanation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 420 ---

Some changes can be made to direct quotations without alerting readers:
The first letter of the first word in a quotation may be changed to an
uppercase or a lowercase letter to fit the context of the sentence in which
the quotation appears.
Some punctuation marks at the end of a quotation may be changed to fit
the syntax of the sentence in which the quotation appears, as long as
meaning is not changed (e.g., it might alter meaning to change a period to
a question mark, depending on how the sentence is written).
Single quotation marks may be changed to double quotation marks and
vice versa.
Footnote or endnote number callouts can be omitted (see also Section
8.32).
Any other changes (e.g., italicizing words for emphasis or omitting words;
see Section 8.31) must be explicitly indicated. For more on quoting from a
bulleted list without reproducing the bullets, see the second example in
Section 8.28.
8.31 Changes to a Quotation Requiring Explanation
Some changes to direct quotations require explanation, as shown in the
example in Figure 8.6.
Figure 8.6 Example of Changes Made to a Direct Quotation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 421 ---

Note. In this passage, some works are cited multiple times to support multiple points. It is
necessary to repeat these citations because different combinations of works support different
ideas—the sources change and thus must be made clear to readers. If all ideas had the same
sources, it would not be necessary to repeat the citations.
Omitting Material. Use an ellipsis to indicate that you have omitted words
within a quotation (e.g., to shorten a sentence or tie two sentences together).
Either type three periods with spaces around each ( . . . ) or use the ellipsis
character created by your word-processing program when you type three
periods in a row ( … ), with a space before and after. Do not use an ellipsis at
the beginning or end of any quotation unless the original source includes an
ellipsis; start or end the quotation at the point where the source’s text begins
or ends. Use four periods—that is, a period plus an ellipsis (. … )—to show a
sentence break within omitted material, such as when a quotation includes the
end of one sentence and the beginning of another sentence.
Inserting Material. Use square brackets, not parentheses, to enclose material
such as an addition or explanation you have inserted in a quotation.
Adding Emphasis. If you want to emphasize a word or words in a quotation,
use italics. Immediately after the italicized words, insert “emphasis added”
within square brackets as follows: [emphasis added].
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 422 ---

8.32 Quotations That Contain Citations to Other Works
When quoting material that contains embedded citations, include the citations
within the quotation. Do not include these works in the reference list unless
you cite them as primary sources elsewhere in your paper. In the following
example, Panero et al. (2016) would appear in the reference list, but the
Stanislavski citations would not:
Actors “are encouraged to become immersed in a character’s life
(Stanislavski, 1936/1948, 1950), an activity that calls for absorption”
(Panero et al., 2016, p. 234).
Footnote or endnote number callouts in the quoted material can be omitted
with no explanation (see Section 8.30).
If citations appear at the end of material you want to quote, it is common
practice to end the quotation before the citations and to cite only the work
you read (see Figure 8.7 for an example). It is appropriate to omit the
citations at the end of a quotation when the material you quote represents a
new approach to or conceptualization of the ideas presented in the cited
works—for example, when authors have summarized a body of work and you
want to quote and cite that summary. If you want to quote the same material
that was quoted in the work you are citing, see Section 8.33.
Figure 8.7  Example of Citations Omitted at the End of a Quotation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 423 ---

Note. In the original passage, Killham et al. (2018) summarized the results of many studies
and cited their sources at the end of the sentence. To quote Killham et al.’s summary in your
paper, cite Killham et al., and omit the citations at the end of the original sentence. Interested
readers can consult Killham et al. for further information.
8.33 Quotations That Contain Material Already in Quotation
Marks
If your source includes a direct quotation from another work, and you would
like to use the same direct quotation in your paper, it is best to read and cite
the original source directly. If the original source is unavailable, cite the
quotation using the secondary source (see Section 8.6).
To quote material that already uses quotation marks for some other
purpose (e.g., to enclose a phrase such as a coined expression or linguistic
example; see Section 6.7), it may be necessary to change double quotation
marks to single or vice versa in your paper depending on the number of
words you are quoting.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 424 ---

Short Quotations. For quotations of fewer than 40 words, use single
quotation marks within double quotation marks to set off material that was
enclosed in double quotation marks in the original source.
Correct: Bliese et al. (2017) noted that “mobile devices enabled employees in
many jobs to work ‘anywhere, anytime’ and stay electronically tethered to work
outside formal working hours” (p. 391).
Incorrect: Bliese et al. (2017) noted that “mobile devices enabled employees in
many jobs to work “anywhere, anytime” and stay electronically tethered to work
outside formal working hours” (p. 391).
Block Quotations. Use double quotation marks around quoted material that
appears within a block quotation. (If the original quotation marks were single
quotation marks, as in British-style publications, change them to double
quotation marks in your paper.)
Correct:
It is also worth considering the need for subjective certainty:
If a conjecture is just mere guess, one would not expect the same bias to
occur, because it might likely come along with the metacognition of 
“I
know I am/was just guessing, ” which would counteract retrospectively
increased perceptions of foreseeability. (von der Beck & Cress, 2018, p.
97)
Incorrect:
It is also worth considering the need for subjective certainty:
If a conjecture is just mere guess, one would not expect the same bias to
occur, because it might likely come along with the metacognition of 
‘I
know I am/was just guessing, ’ which would counteract retrospectively
increased perceptions of foreseeability. (von der Beck & Cress, 2018, p.
97)
8.34 Permission to Reprint or Adapt Lengthy Quotations
You may need written permission from the owner of a copyrighted work if
you include lengthy quotations (usually more than 800 words) from it in your
work. Quotations from shorter works (e.g., poems, songs) may also need
permission. See Sections 12.14 to 12.18 for guidelines on citing these
quotations.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 425 ---

8.35 Epigraphs
An epigraph is a quotation that is used to introduce an article, book, chapter,
dissertation, or other work. Authors may use an epigraph to set the stage for
what follows or to serve as a summary or counterpoint. The epigraph should
appear before the first line of text and should be indented 0.5 in. from the left
margin, like a block quotation, without quotation marks.
The source of an epigraph is not usually listed in the reference list unless
the work is cited elsewhere in the text of the paper or is important within the
context of the topic. If the source of the epigraph is not included in the
reference list, on the line below the quotation, provide the credit line—
consisting of an em dash and then the author’s full name, a comma, and the
title of the work in which the quotation appeared—and align it to the right.
Research is formalized curiosity. It is poking and prying with a purpose.
—Zora Neale Hurston, Dust Tracks on a Road
However, do provide a reference list entry for an epigraph from an academic
source (e.g., scholarly book or journal) or a quotation used with permission.
The parenthetical citation, including the author, date, and page number,
appears after the end punctuation of the quotation with no line break. The
example quotation comes from a republished work (see Chapter 10, Example
29).
If life is to be sustained, hope must remain, even where confidence is
wounded, trust impaired. (Erikson, 1966/2000, p. 192)
8.36 Quotations From Research Participants
Quotations from participants whom you interviewed as part of your research
are treated differently than quotations from published works. When quoting
research participants, use the same formatting as for other quotations: Present
a quotation of fewer than 40 words in quotation marks within the text (see
Section 8.26), and present a quotation of 40 words or more in a block
quotation (see Section 8.27). Because quotations from research participants
are part of your original research, do not include them in the reference list or
treat them as personal communications; state in the text that the quotations
are from participants.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 426 ---

When quoting research participants, abide by the ethical agreements
regarding confidentiality and/or anonymity between you and your
participants. Take extra care to obtain and respect participants’ consent to
have their information included in your report. You may need to assign
participants a pseudonym, obscure identifying information, or present
information in the aggregate (strategies for adequately disguising materials
are further described in Sections 1.14 and 1.19; see also Section 1.15
regarding confidentiality in qualitative studies).
Participant “Julia,” a 32-year-old woman from California, described her
experiences as a new mother as “simultaneously the best and hardest time
of my life.” Several other participants agreed, describing the beginning of
parenthood as “joyful,” “lonely,” and “intense.” Julia and the other
participants completed interviews in their homes.
Agreements regarding confidentiality and/or anonymity may also extend to
other sources related to your methodology (e.g., quoting a school policy
document when conducting a case study at a school). These sources would
not be cited in text or listed in the reference list because doing so would
compromise the school’s confidentiality and/or anonymity. However, it may
be possible to discuss information from these sources in the text if the
material is suitably disguised.
Our study was conducted at a high school in Atlanta, Georgia. School
administrators provided documents containing students’ average test
scores and the percentage of students receiving free or reduced-price
lunch. We used these data to contextualize the impact of our intervention.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 427 ---

9
REFERENCE LIST
The reference list at the end of a paper provides the information necessary to
identify and retrieve each work cited in the text. Choose references
judiciously, and include only the works that you used in the research for and
preparation of your paper. APA publications and other publishers and
institutions using APA Style generally require reference lists, not
bibliographies. A reference list cites works that specifically support the ideas,
claims, and concepts in a paper; in contrast, a bibliography cites works for
background or further reading and may include descriptive notes (e.g., an
annotated bibliography; see Section 9.51).
In this chapter, we provide guidelines for creating reference list entries,
with specific sections focusing on each reference element (author, date, title,
source) and the format and order of an APA Style reference list. For
information on crediting works in the text and formatting in-text citations, see
Chapter 8; for examples of specific reference types, see Chapter 10 (these
examples are cross-referenced within this chapter).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 428 ---

Reference Categories
9.1 Determining the Reference Category
References in the Publication Manual are organized by group, category, and
type. Reference groups are textual works; data sets, software, and tests;
audiovisual media; and online media. Each group contains numbered
reference categories. For example, the textual works group contains the
categories of periodicals, books and reference works, edited book chapters
and reference work entries, and dissertations and theses. The online media
group contains the categories of social media and webpages and websites.
Within each category are different reference types. For example, the
periodical reference category includes journal articles, magazine articles,
newspaper articles, and blog posts. The social media reference category
includes tweets, Facebook posts, and Instagram photos.
To create a reference list entry, first determine the reference group and
category and then choose the appropriate reference type within the category
and follow that example. If the work you want to cite does not match any
example, choose the group, category, and type that are most similar and adapt
the format using the elements shown in the relevant template. How a work
was accessed or obtained (e.g., online, in print, via interlibrary loan) and how
it is formatted (e.g., print, PDF, DVD, online streaming video) have little, if
any, impact on the reference list entry. See Chapter 10 for reference templates
and examples.
9.2 Using the Webpages and Websites Reference Category
The term “website” can cause confusion because people use it to refer to both
a reference category (see Section 10.16) and a method of retrieval (i.e.,
online). Many types of works can be retrieved online, including articles,
books, reports, and data sets, but only some works fall into the webpages and
websites reference category. Use that category only when the work does not
better fit within another category. First ask yourself, “What type of work is
on this website?” Then choose the reference category in Chapter 10 that is
most similar to the work you want to cite and follow the most relevant
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 429 ---

example. For example, to cite a report from a government website, use the
reports category (Section 10.4) and follow the format for a government report
(see Chapter 10, Examples 50–52). Likewise, to cite a webpage from a
government website, use the webpages and websites category (Section 10.16)
and follow the format for a work on a website (see Chapter 10, Examples
110–114). Note that the author of a webpage or website may be difficult to
determine or may be identified through context (see Section 9.7), and
webpages and websites often have unknown dates of publication (see Section
9.17).
9.3 Online and Print References
APA Style references for online and print works are largely the same. All
references generally include the author, date, title, and source; differences
between online and print versions are evident within the source element. The
source element includes information about where the work came from (e.g., a
periodical’s title, a book’s or report’s publisher, a website’s name).
References for works with DOIs also include the DOI in the source element,
and references for most online works without DOIs include the work’s URL
(see Section 9.34 for more on when to include DOIs and URLs). However,
database information and/or database URLs are not usually included in
references (see Section 9.30 for an explanation and a few exceptions). Thus,
the same template can be used to create a reference for both the print and
online versions of a work. Use only one template (not multiple templates) to
create your reference entry.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 430 ---

Principles of Reference List Entries
9.4 Four Elements of a Reference
A reference generally has four elements: author, date, title, and source. Each
element answers a question:
author: Who is responsible for this work?
date: When was this work published?
title: What is this work called?
source: Where can I retrieve this work?
Considering these four elements and answering these four questions will help
you create a reference for any type of work, even if you do not see a specific
example that matches it. See the sections on the author ( Sections 9.7–9.12),
date (Sections 9.13–9.17), title (Sections 9.18–9.22), and source (Sections
9.23–9.37) for more information on each element. Figure 9.1 shows an
example of an article title page highlighting the locations of the reference
elements and showing their placement in a reference list entry.
Figure 9.1 Example of Where to Find Reference Information for a Journal
Article
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 431 ---

Sometimes reference elements are unknown or missing and the reference
list entry must be adapted. See Table 9.1 for a summary of how reference
elements are assembled and adjusted when information is missing.
Table 9.1 How to Create a Reference When Information Is Missing
Missing
element Solution
Template
Reference list
entry In-text citation
Nothing—
all
elements
are present
Provide the author, date, title, and source
of the work.
Author. (Date).
Title. Source.
(Author, year)
Author (year)
Author Provide the title, date, and source. Title. (Date).
Source.
(Title, year)
Title (year)
Date Provide the author, write “n.d.” for “no
date,” and then provide the title and
source.
Author. (n.d.).
Title. Source.
(Author, n.d.)
Author (n.d.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 432 ---

Title Provide the author and date, describe the
work in square brackets, and then provide
the source.
Author. (Date).
[Description
of work].
Source.
(Author, year)
Author (year)
Author and
date
Provide the title, write “n.d.” for “no date,”
and then provide the source.
Title. (n.d.).
Source.
(Title, n.d.)
Title (n.d.)
Author and
title
Describe the work in square brackets, and
then provide the date and source.
[Description of
work]. (Date).
Source.
([Description of work],
year)
[Description of work]
(year)
Date and
title
Provide the author, write “n.d.” for “no
date,” describe the work in square
brackets, and then provide the source.
Author. (n.d.).
[Description
of work].
Source.
(Author, n.d.)
Author (n.d.)
Author,
date, and
title
Describe the work in square brackets,
write “n.d.” for “no date,” and then provide
the source.
[Description of
work]. (n.d.).
Source.
([Description of work],
n.d.)
[Description of work]
(n.d.)
Source Cite as a personal communication (see
Section 8.9) or find another work to cite
(see Section 9.37).
No reference
list entry
(C. C. Communicator,
personal
communication, month
day, year)
C. C. Communicator
(personal
communication, month
day, year)
Note. This table illustrates how reference category templates change when reference elements such as the author
(Section 9.12), date (Section 9.17), title (Section 9.22), and/or source (Section 9.37) are missing. Italic formatting
within the title or source varies by category and is not shown here. To create a reference list entry, follow the
template for the work’s reference category (see Section 9.1) and adjust the information as shown here.
9.5 Punctuation Within Reference List Entries
Use punctuation marks within reference list entries to group information.
Ensure that a period appears after each reference element—that is, after
the author, date, title, and source. However, do not put a period after a
DOI or URL because it may interfere with link functionality.
Use punctuation marks (usually commas or parentheses) between parts of
the same reference element. For example, in a reference for a journal
article, use a comma between each author’s last name and initials and
between different authors’ names, between the journal name and the
volume number, and between the journal issue number and the page
numbers. Do not use a comma between the journal volume and issue
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 433 ---

numbers; place the issue number in parentheses instead (see Section 9.25
and Chapter 10, Example 1).
Italicize punctuation marks that appear within an italic reference element
(e.g., a comma or colon within a book title). Do not italicize punctuation
between reference elements (e.g., the period after an italic book title).
9.6 Accuracy and Consistency in References
Because one purpose of listing references is to enable readers to retrieve and
use the cited works, reference data must be accurate and complete. The best
way to ensure that information is accurate and complete is to check each
reference carefully against the original publication. Authors are responsible
for all information in their reference lists. Accurately prepared references
help establish your credibility as a careful researcher and writer.
Consistency in reference formatting allows readers to focus on the content
of your reference list, discerning both the types of works you consulted and
the important reference elements (who, when, what, and where) with ease.
When you present each reference in a consistent fashion, following APA
Style reference guidelines, readers do not need to spend time determining
how you organized the information. And when searching the literature
yourself, you also save time and effort when reading reference lists in the
works of others. Some works contain suggested citations; these citations
often contain the information necessary to write an APA Style reference but
need editing for style.
Accuracy and consistency of references are also important for ensuring that
other researchers can find and access the works in your reference list. For
example, in the online version of an article, publishers use computer
algorithms to link in-text citations to reference list entries within the article,
link the reference list entries to the works they cite, and compile lists of
works that have cited each source. If reference elements are out of order or
incomplete, the algorithm may not recognize them, lowering the likelihood
that the reference will be captured for indexing. When in doubt, place
reference elements in the order of author, date, title, and source.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 434 ---

Reference Elements
Author
The following sections describe the definition, format, and spelling of author
names (Sections 9.7–9.9); the identification of specialized author roles, such
as editor or director (Section 9.10); and how to handle group authors (Section
9.11) and works without an author (Section 9.12).
9.7 Definition of Author
In a reference, the author refers broadly to the person(s) or group responsible
for a work. This element includes not only author(s) of articles, books,
reports, and other works but also others who played primary roles in the
creation of a work, such as the editor(s) of a book, the director of a film, the
principal investigator of a grant, a podcast host, and so on.
An author may be
an individual,
multiple people,
a group (institution, government agency, organization; see Section 9.11),
or
a combination of people and groups.
Sometimes the author of a work is not listed in a traditional byline but can be
determined from context. For instance, the author of an annual report is
usually the organization that produced it, unless otherwise specified in the
report. Thus, in the reference list entry for that annual report, the organization
would be listed as the author. Likewise, in the reference for a page from an
organizational or government agency website, the organization or
government agency itself is considered the author, unless otherwise specified.
The author of a webpage or website may also be located on an “about us” or
acknowledgments page. When you cannot determine who the author is, treat
the work as having no author (see Section 9.12).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 435 ---

9.8 Format of the Author Element
Follow these guidelines to format the author element.
Invert all individual authors’ names, providing the surname first, followed
by a comma and the initials: Author, A. A.
Use a comma to separate an author’s initials from additional author
names, even when there are only two authors; use an ampersand (&)
before the final author’s name: Author, A. A.
, & Author, B. B.
Do not use a comma to separate two group authors: American
Psychological Association & National Institutes of Health.
Use a serial comma before the ampersand (&) with three or more authors.
Provide surnames and initials for up to and including 20 authors. When
there are two to 20 authors, use an ampersand before the final author’s
name: Author, A. A., Author, B. B., 
& Author, C. C.
When there are 21 or more authors, include the first 19 authors’ names,
insert an ellipsis (but no ampersand), and then add the final author’s name
(see Chapter 10, Example 4).
Use one space between initials.
When given names are hyphenated, retain the hyphen and include a period
after each initial but no space (e.g., Xu, A.-J., for Ai-Jun Xu). When the
second element of a hyphenated name is lowercase, treat it as a single
name (e.g., Raboso, L., for Lee-ann Raboso).
Use commas to separate initials and suffixes such as Jr. and III: Author,
A. A.
, Jr., & Author, B. B.
If nonprimary authors are credited using the word “with” (e.g., on a book
cover), include them in the reference list entry in parentheses: Meyers, K.
(with Long, W. T.). The in-text citation, however, refers to the primary
author only: (Meyers, 2019).
If an author has only one name (e.g., some celebrities, some authors from
Indonesia, ancient Greek and Roman authors, some group or corporate
authors); an inseparable multipart name (e.g., Malcolm X, Lady Gaga); an
essential title, in rare cases (Queen Elizabeth II); or a username (or screen
name) only, provide the full name or username without abbreviation in
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 436 ---

both the reference list and the in-text citation. That is, cite Plato, Sukarno,
or Lady Gaga; do not abbreviate these names to P.; S.; or Gaga, L. In the
reference list entry, add a period after the author’s name: Plato. (2017).
Do not include titles, positions, ranks, or academic achievements with
names in reference list entries (e.g., Reverend, President, General, PhD,
LCSW). A few reference types include an author’s role in parentheses,
when needed (e.g., film director; see Chapter 10, Example 84).
If both an author’s username and real name are known, such as for some
individual and group social media authors, provide the real name of the
individual (in inverted format) or group, followed by the username in
square brackets (see examples in Section 10.15). This approach allows the
reference to be grouped with any other works by that author in the
reference list and will aid readers in identifying and retrieving the cited
work.
When the @ symbol is part of a username, include that symbol with the
username in brackets (see Chapter 10, Examples 103–108).
9.9 Spelling and Capitalization of Author Names
Follow these guidelines for proper spelling and capitalization of author
names.
Write the author’s surname exactly as it appears in the published work,
including hyphenated surnames (e.g., Santos-García) and two-part
surnames (e.g., Velasco Rodríguez; see also Chapter 10, Example 25).
If uncertain about the proper format for a name, consult other works that
cite that author, bibliographic database records, or the author’s website or
curriculum vitae (CV) to determine the appropriate format. This will help
avoid mistaking, for example, a two-part surname for a middle name and
surname or vice versa. Follow the most common presentation if any
ambiguity remains.
Retain the author’s preferred capitalization (e.g., hooks, b., for bell hooks)
in both the reference list and the in-text citation.
9.10 Identification of Specialized Roles
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 437 ---

People in roles other than author who contributed substantially to the creation
of a work are recognized for a variety of reference types. See the examples in
Chapter 10 for instances when a specialized role is credited in the reference.
In these references, the role is placed in parentheses after the inverted
surname and initials. Put a period at the end of the author element.
Use the abbreviation “(Ed.)” for one editor and the abbreviation “(Eds.)”
for multiple editors. In the case of multiple editors, include the role once.
Schulz, O. P. (Ed.).
Wong, C. T., & Music, K. (Eds.).
When a reference includes more than one type of specialized role (e.g.,
both writers and a director), and different individuals played different
roles, identify each role separately. If an individual played multiple roles,
combine the roles using an ampersand (&).
Park, O. (Writer), Gunnarsson, N. (Writer), & Botha, V. N. (Director).
Lutz, T. (Writer & Director).
In some cases, a specialized role is identified later in the reference (e.g., an
editor of a book for an edited book chapter, see Chapter 10, examples in
Section 10.3; a symposium chair, see Chapter 10, Example 63; a TV series
producer, see Chapter 10, Example 87).
9.11 Group Authors
Group authors may include government agencies, associations, nonprofit
organizations, businesses, hospitals, task forces, and study groups (see
Chapter 10, Examples 50, 53–55, 90, and 111). A group may author a
publication on its own or in combination with individuals or other groups
(see Chapter 10, Example 5).
Spell out the full name of a group author in the reference list entry,
followed by a period: National Institute of Mental Health.
An abbreviation for the group author can be used in the text (see Section
8.21); however, do not include an abbreviation for a group author in a
reference list entry.
When numerous layers of government agencies are listed as the author of
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 438 ---

a work, use the most specific agency as the author in the reference (e.g.,
use “National Institute of Nursing Research” rather than “U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health,
National Institute of Nursing Research”). The names of parent agencies
not present in the group author name appear in the source element as the
publisher. This presentation aids in identifying the agency responsible for
the work and in creating concise in-text citations. However, if using only
the most specific responsible agency as the author would cause confusion
(e.g., if you are citing both U.S. and Canadian versions of an agency and
they have the same name), then include the parent agencies in the author
element to differentiate them. When there are multiple layers of agencies,
the parent body precedes the subdivision (e.g., The White House, Office
of the Press Secretary). Agencies listed in the author element are not
repeated in the source element of the reference.
Sometimes it can be difficult to know whether to credit a group author or
the individuals who wrote on behalf of that group; for example, the
individuals who wrote a government agency report may be credited in an
acknowledgments section. To confirm, consult the cover or title page of
the work. If the cover or title page lists only the name of the group (and no
names of individuals), treat the reference as having a group author (see
Chapter 10, Examples 50 and 53–55). If the cover or title page lists the
names of individuals, treat the reference as having individual authors, and
include the name of the group as part of the source element (see Chapter
10, Examples 51–52). When a document includes a suggested reference,
the author names included in that reference indicate who should be
credited (note that the format of the suggested reference may need to be
adjusted for APA Style).
9.12 No Author
A work is treated as having no author when its author is unknown or cannot
reasonably be determined. In this case, move the title of the work to the
author position (followed by a period), before the date of publication (see
Chapter 10, Example 49).
Generalized anxiety disorder. (2019).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 439 ---

If, and only if‚ the work is signed “Anonymous,” use “Anonymous” as the
author.
Anonymous. (2017).
See Section 8.14 for how to format the in-text citation for a work with no
author. See Section 9.49 for how to order works with no authors in the
reference list.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 440 ---

Date
The following sections describe the definition and format of the date element
(Sections 9.13–9.14) and how to handle online works that are updated or
reviewed (Section 9.15) or that need a retrieval date (Section 9.16), as well as
works with no date (Section 9.17).
9.13 Definition of Date
In a reference, the date refers to the date of publication. The date may take
one of the following forms:
year only;
year, month, and day (i.e., an exact date);
year and month;
year and season; or
range of dates (e.g., range of years, range of exact dates).
For books, use the copyright date shown on the work’s copyright page as the
date of publication in the reference, even if the copyright date is different
than the release date (e.g., 2020 would be the date in the reference for a book
released in December 2019 with a copyright date of 2020). For a journal
article reference, use the year of the volume, even if it is different than the
copyright year.
When citing webpages and websites (see Section 10.16), ensure that the
copyright date applies to the content you are citing. Do not use a copyright
date from a webpage or website footer because this date may not indicate
when the content on the site was published. If a note indicates the “last
updated” date of the page, use that date if it applies to the content you are
citing (see Section 9.15). If no separate date of publication is indicated for the
work on the webpage, treat the work as having no date (see Section 9.17).
9.14 Format of the Date Element
Follow the date format and examples shown in each reference category (see
Chapter 10). Use more specific dates for works that are published more
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 441 ---

frequently (e.g., year, month, and day for newspaper articles and blog posts).
Most references include only the year of publication.
Enclose the date of publication in parentheses, followed by a period:
(2020).
For works from a reference category that includes the month, day, and/or
season along with the year, put the year first, followed by a comma, and
then the month and date or season:
(2020, August 26).
(2020, Spring/Summer).
For unpublished, informally published, or in-progress works, provide the
year the work was produced (see Section 10.8). Do not use “in progress”
or “submitted for publication” in the date element of a reference.
If a work has been accepted for publication but is not yet published, use
the term “in press” instead of a year (see Chapter 10, Example 8). Do not
provide a date in the reference until the work has been published.
If a work is an advance online publication, use the year of the advance
online publication in the reference (see Chapter 10, Example 7).
If a work includes both an advance online publication date and a final
publication date, use the final publication date in the reference.
When the date of original publication is approximate, use the abbreviation
“ca.” (which stands for “circa”; see Chapter 10, Example 36).
9.15 Updated or Reviewed Online Works
Some online works note when a work was last updated. If this date is
available and is clearly attributable to the specific content you are citing
rather than the overall website, use the updated date in the reference (see
Chapter 10, Example 14, for a source retrieved from the UpToDate database).
Do not include a date of last review in a reference because content that has
been reviewed has not necessarily been changed. If a date of last review is
noted on a work, ignore it for the purposes of the reference.
9.16 Retrieval Dates
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 442 ---

Although most online sources can be updated, some are inherently designed
to change (e.g., dictionary entry, Twitter profile, Facebook page; see Chapter
10, Examples 33, 47, 104, and 106) or reflect information that changes over
time (e.g., UpToDate article, map generated by Google Maps, work on a
website that updates frequently; see Chapter 10, Examples 14, 100, and 113).
Provide a retrieval date in the source element when citing an unarchived (i.e.,
not stable) work that is likely or meant to change. Including this date
indicates to readers that the version of the work they retrieve may be different
from the version you used.
For works that may change over time but have archived versions (e.g.,
Cochrane reviews or Wikipedia articles), a retrieval date is not needed
because the archived version of the page is stable and can be retrieved (e.g.,
via a permalink; see Chapter 10, Examples 13 and 49). The majority of
references do not include retrieval dates; the types that might are noted in the
applicable reference examples in Chapter 10. The retrieval date, when
needed, appears before the URL.
Retrieved October 11, 2020, from https://xxxxx
9.17 No Date
Sometimes the publication date of a work is unknown or cannot be
determined. For works with no date, write “n.d.” (which stands for “no date”)
in parentheses. Put a period after the “n” and after the “d” with no space
between the letters.
Gagnon, R. (n.d.).
The date also appears as “n.d.” in the corresponding in-text citation.
(Gagnon, n.d.) or Gagnon (n.d.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 443 ---

Title
The following sections describe the definition and format of the title element
(Sections 9.18–9.19) and how to handle series and multivolume works
(Section 9.20), use bracketed descriptions (Section 9.21), and account for
works without a title (Section 9.22).
9.18 Definition of Title
In a reference, the title refers to the title of the work being cited. Titles fall
into two broad categories: works that stand alone (e.g., whole books, reports,
gray literature, dissertations and theses, informally published works, data
sets, videos, films, TV series, podcasts, social media, and works on websites)
and works that are part of a greater whole (e.g., periodical articles, edited
book chapters, and TV and podcast episodes). When a work stands alone
(e.g., a report), the title of that work appears in the title element of the
reference. When a work is part of a greater whole (e.g., a journal article or
edited book chapter), the title of the article or chapter appears in the title
element of the reference and the title of the greater whole (the journal or
edited book) appears in the source element (see Sections 9.25 and 9.28,
respectively).
9.19 Format of the Title Element
Follow these guidelines to format the title element.
For works that are part of a greater whole (e.g., journal articles, edited
book chapters), do not italicize the title or use quotation marks, and
capitalize it using sentence case (see Section 6.17).
The virtue gap in humor: Exploring benevolent and corrective humor.
For works that stand alone (e.g., books, reports, webpages and websites),
italicize the title, and capitalize it using sentence case (see Section 6.17).
Adoption-specific therapy: A guide to helping adopted children and their
families thrive.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 444 ---

For book and report references, enclose in parentheses after the title any
additional information given in the publication for its identification and
retrieval (e.g., edition, report number, volume number). Do not add a
period between the title and the parenthetical information, and do not
italicize the parenthetical information. If both edition and volume
information are included, separate these elements with a comma, placing
the edition number first.
Nursing: A concept-based approach to learning (2nd ed., Vol. 1).
If a numbered volume has its own title, the volume number and title are
included as part of the main title, rather than in parentheses (see Chapter
10, Examples 30 and 45).
Finish the title element with a period. However, if the title ends with a
question mark or exclamation point, that punctuation mark replaces the
period.
See Section 6.17 for how to format titles that appear in the text.
9.20 Series and Multivolume Works
For a book that is part of a multivolume work, such as a handbook
comprising three volumes, include the series title in the reference list entry.
For examples of titled and untitled volumes, see Chapter 10, Example 30.
When a book is part of a series of conceptually related but separate works
(e.g., popular book series such as Harry Potter or the Chronicles of Narnia),
include only the book title, not the series title, in the reference. Depending on
the publisher and the series, the series name may be either prominent or hard
to find; therefore, we recommend omitting it to avoid confusion (see Chapter
10, Example 31).
9.21 Bracketed Descriptions
To help identify works outside the peer-reviewed academic literature (i.e.,
works other than articles, books, reports, etc.), provide a description of the
work in square brackets after the title and before the period. The description
aids readers in identifying and retrieving the work. Examples of works that
include bracketed descriptions are some audiobooks, gray literature (e.g.,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 445 ---

press releases), audiovisual works (e.g., films, YouTube videos,
photographs), software and mobile apps, data sets, manuscripts in
preparation, and dissertations and theses. Bracketed descriptions are also used
in social media references to indicate attached links or images. Capitalize the
first letter of the description, but do not italicize the description.
Comprehensive meta-analysis (Version 3.3.070) [Computer software].
The examples in Chapter 10 include bracketed descriptions where they are
needed. When in doubt, include a description. Back-to-back brackets (e.g.,
when a translated title is followed by a description) are acceptable in
references. Consistency of wording is helpful (see Section 9.6), but you may
alter the wording shown in the examples to best convey the information
readers need. Use succinct descriptions, as shown in the examples in Chapter
10.
9.22 No Title
For works without a title, include a description of the work in square brackets
instead.
When possible, specify the medium in the description of the untitled work
(e.g., a map) rather than including two bracketed descriptions.
[Map showing the population density of the United States as of the year
2010].
For untitled comments on periodical articles, include up to the first 20
words of the comment or post in addition to a description (see Chapter 10,
Example 18).
For untitled social media posts, include up to the first 20 words of the
comment or post (in italic) in addition to a bracketed description (see
Chapter 10, Examples 103, 105, 107, and 108).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 446 ---

Source
The following sections describe the definition and format of the source
element (Sections 9.23–9.24). Then guidelines for handling specific kinds of
sources are presented, including periodicals (Sections 9.25–9.27); edited
book chapters and reference work entries (Section 9.28); publishers (Section
9.29); databases and archives (Section 9.30); works with specific locations,
such as conferences (Section 9.31); social media (Section 9.32); and
webpages and websites (Section 9.33). Works that have a DOI or URL
(Sections 9.34–9.36) and works without a source (Section 9.37) are also
addressed.
9.23 Definition of Source
In a reference, the source indicates where readers can retrieve the cited work.
As with titles (see Section 9.18), sources fall into two broad categories:
works that are part of a greater whole and works that stand alone.
The source for a work that is part of a greater whole (e.g., journal article,
edited book chapter) is that greater whole (i.e., the journal [see Section
9.25] or edited book [see Section 9.28]), plus any applicable DOI or URL
(see Sections 9.34–9.36).
The source for a work that stands alone (e.g., whole book, report,
dissertation, thesis, film, TV series, podcast, data set, informally published
work, social media, webpage) is the publisher of the work (see Section
9.29), database or archive (see Section 9.30), social media site (see
Section 9.32), or website (see Section 9.33), plus any applicable DOI or
URL (see Sections 9.34–9.36).
Works associated with a specific location (e.g., conference presentations)
include location information in the source (see Section 9.31) and,
depending on the work, may also include a DOI or URL (see Sections
9.34–9.36).
General guidelines on the source element are provided in the following
sections; see Chapter 10 for templates and examples of source components to
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 447 ---

include for each reference category.
9.24 Format of the Source Element
The source element of a reference has one or two parts, depending on the
reference category. For example, the source for a print book without a DOI
has one part: the book publisher. However, the source for a journal article
with a DOI has two parts: the periodical information (the journal title, volume
number, issue number, and page range or article number) and the DOI.
Information in the source may be omitted from the reference to avoid
repetition. Namely, when the author and publisher or site name of a book,
report, webpage, or website are the same, the publisher or site name is
omitted from the source element. See Sections 9.25 to 9.33 for guidance on
formatting the source for particular reference categories.
9.25 Periodical Sources
When a periodical (i.e., journal, magazine, newspaper, newsletter, or blog) is
the source, provide the periodical title, volume number, issue number, and
page range or article number (see Chapter 10, Examples 1–6, 9–12, 15, and
16).
Psychology of Popular Media Culture, 5(2), 101–118.
Capitalize the title of a periodical using title case (see Section 6.17),
italicize it, and place a comma (not italicized) after it.
Reproduce periodical titles as shown on the cited work. If the periodical’s
official title includes an abbreviation, reproduce that abbreviated title in
the reference (e.g., PLOS ONE, JAMA Pediatrics). However, do not
abbreviate periodical titles yourself (e.g., do not abbreviate The New
England Journal of Medicine to N Engl J Med). Likewise, do not
reproduce abbreviated titles from other reference lists or databases (e.g., if
you find an article from JAMA Pediatrics in PubMed Central, use JAMA
Pediatrics in the reference, not PubMed Central’s abbreviation of JAMA
Pediatr).
Italicize the volume number.
Include the issue number for all periodicals that have issue numbers. Place
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 448 ---

the issue number immediately after the volume number (with no space in
between), and enclose the issue number in parentheses. Place a comma
after the closing parenthesis. Do not italicize the issue number, the
parentheses, or the comma after the issue number.
Write the page range (or article number; see Section 9.27) after a comma
and the issue number, without italics. Separate page numbers in a range
by an en dash, followed by a period. Separate discontinuous page
numbers by commas.
39–47, 50.
Finish the periodical information part of the source element with a period,
followed by a DOI or URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34–9.36).
9.26 Online Periodicals With Missing Information
Many online periodicals (e.g., newspapers, blogs) publish articles without
volume, issue, and/or page numbers or article numbers. Omit these elements
from the reference if they are not present in the cited work. For example, for
an online newspaper article or blog post, only the title of the periodical (i.e.,
of the newspaper or blog) may be present (see Chapter 10, Examples 16, 17,
and 68).
The New York Times.
9.27 Article Numbers
For articles with article numbers (which may be called “eLocators” or
another term), write the word “Article” (capitalized) and then provide the
article number instead of the page range (see Chapter 10, Example 6).
PLOS ONE, 11(7), Article e0158474.
If an article with an article number also has numbered pages (such as in a
PDF), those page numbers may be used for in-text citations (see Sections
8.23 and 8.25) but do not appear in the reference list entry.
9.28 Edited Book Chapter and Reference Work Entry Sources
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 449 ---

For edited book chapters and entries in reference works (e.g., dictionary
definitions), the source is the edited book or the whole reference work (see
Chapter 10, Examples 38–48).
For works with editors, in the source element of the reference, write the
word “In” followed by the initials and surnames (not inverted) of the
editors. If there is one editor, follow that editor’s name with “(Ed.).” If
there are two or more editors, follow the final editor’s name with “(Eds.).”
Then add a comma, the title of the whole book or reference work in italic
sentence case (see Section 6.17), the page (abbreviated “p.”) or page
range (abbreviated “pp.”) of the chapter or entry in parentheses without
italics, and a period. Then provide the name of the publisher (see Section
9.29).
In E. E. Editor (Ed.), Title of book (pp. xx–xx). Publisher.
If the edited book or reference work has edition or volume information in
addition to page numbers, include them in the same parentheses in the
following order: edition, volume number, and page numbers (separated by
commas).
Title of book (2nd ed., Vol. 3, pp. xx–xx).
If a numbered book volume has its own title, include the volume number
and title after the main title of the book. A colon follows the main title,
“Volume” is abbreviated “Vol.,” and a period follows the volume number,
after which the volume title appears.
Main title of book: Vol. 2. Volume title (2nd ed., pp. xx–xx).
For a reference work (e.g., Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary, APA
Dictionary of Psychology, mobile app reference work) with a group
author, do not repeat the group author name in the source element when
the publisher is the same as the author. Simply write “In” and the name of
the reference work in italics (see Chapter 10, Examples 47 and 80).
TV episodes, podcast episodes, and songs from albums follow the same
pattern as edited book chapters and entries from reference works (see
Chapter 10, Examples 87, 92, and 94).
Finish the source element with a period, followed by a DOI or URL as
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 450 ---

applicable (see Section 9.34).
9.29 Publisher Sources
The name of the publisher is provided in the source element for a number of
reference categories, including whole books, edited book chapters, reports,
computer software and mobile apps, and data sets. Do not include the
publisher location in the reference. Online search makes a work easily
discoverable without it, and it may be unclear what location to provide for
publishers with offices worldwide or online-only publishers that do not
readily disclose their location.
Write the publisher name as shown on the work, followed by a period. Do
not abbreviate the publisher name unless it is shown in abbreviated form
on the work.
Note: Some publishers may prefer to abbreviate publisher names (e.g.,
“John Wiley & Sons” to “Wiley”) to save space in reference list entries;
this is acceptable as part of a house style. If you intend to publish your
work, consult the policies of the publisher to determine whether to
follow this practice.
The format of publisher names may vary over time and across works (e.g.,
SAGE Publishing vs. Sage Publications); use the spelling and
capitalization of the publisher name as shown on the work you used. It is
not necessary to standardize the presentation of a publisher’s name if it
appears in multiple entries in a reference list.
If the work is published by an imprint or division, use the imprint or
division as the publisher (e.g., Magination Press, which is an imprint of
the American Psychological Association, would be used as the publisher).
Do not include designations of business structure (e.g., Inc., Ltd., LLC) in
the publisher name.
If two or more publishers are listed on the copyright page, include all of
them in the order shown on the work, separated by semicolons (see
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 451 ---

Chapter 10, Example 24).
Guilford Press; Basic Books.
When the author is the same as the publisher (such as with an annual
report written and published by the same company, a reference book
published by a professional organization, or a work from an
organizational website), omit the publisher from the reference to avoid
repetition (see Chapter 10, Examples 32, 50, 54, and 55).
Finish the publisher information component of the source element with a
period, followed by a DOI or URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34–9.36).
9.30 Database and Archive Sources
Database and archive information is seldom needed in reference list entries.
The purpose of a reference list entry is to provide readers with the details they
will need to perform a search themselves if necessary, not to replicate the
path the author of the work personally used. Most periodical and book
content is available through a variety of databases or platforms, and different
readers will have different methods or points of access. Additionally, URLs
from databases or library-provided services usually require a login and/or are
session specific, meaning they will not be accessible to most readers and are
not suitable to include in a reference list.
Provide database or other online archive information in a reference only
when it is necessary for readers to retrieve the cited work from that exact
database or archive.
Provide the name of the database or archive when it publishes original,
proprietary works available only in that database or archive (e.g.,
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews or UpToDate; see Chapter
10, Examples 13–14). References for these works are similar to journal
article references; the name of the database or archive is written in italic
title case in the source element, the same as a periodical title.
Provide the name of the database or archive for works of limited
circulation, such as
dissertations and theses published in ProQuest Dissertations and
Theses Global,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 452 ---

works in a university archive,
manuscripts posted in a preprint archive like PsyArXiv (see Chapter
10, Example 73),
works posted in an institutional or government repository, and
monographs published in ERIC or primary sources published in
JSTOR (see Chapter 10, Example 74).
These references are similar to report references; the name of the
database or archive is provided in the source element (in title case
without italics), the same as a publisher name.
Do not include database information for works obtained from most
academic research databases or platforms because works in these
resources are widely available. Examples of academic research databases
and platforms include APA PsycNET, PsycINFO, Academic Search
Complete, CINAHL, Ebook Central, EBSCOhost, Google Scholar,
JSTOR (excluding its primary sources collection because these are works
of limited distribution), MEDLINE, Nexis Uni, Ovid, ProQuest
(excluding its dissertations and theses databases, because dissertations and
theses are works of limited circulation), PubMed Central (excluding
authors’ final peer-reviewed manuscripts because these are works of
limited circulation), ScienceDirect, Scopus, and Web of Science. When
citing a work from one of these databases or platforms, do not include the
database or platform name in the reference list entry unless the work falls
under one of the exceptions.
If you are in doubt as to whether to include database information in a
reference, refer to the template for the reference type in question (see
Chapter 10).
Finish the database or archive component of the source element with a
period, followed by a DOI or URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34–9.36).
9.31 Works With Specific Locations
For works associated with a specific location, such as conference
presentations (see Chapter 10, Examples 60–63; for more, see the Source
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 453 ---

Variations list at the beginning of Chapter 10), include the location in the
source element of the reference to help with retrieval. Provide the city; state,
province, or territory as applicable; and country. Use the two-letter postal
code abbreviations for U.S. states and the analogous abbreviations (if any) for
states, provinces, or territories in other countries.
New York, NY, United States
Vancouver, BC, Canada
Sydney, NSW, Australia
Istanbul, Turkey
Lima, Peru
London, England
9.32 Social Media Sources
Use social media as a source only when the content was originally published
there (e.g., an original Instagram post). If you found a link to content via
social media (e.g., a pin on Pinterest), cite the content you used directly and
do not mention that you originally discovered it through a link on social
media, except as necessary in describing your research methodology.
When social media is the source (e.g., Instagram photo, tweet, Facebook
post), provide the social media site name (in title case without italics) in
the source element (see Section 6.17): Twitter.
Include a period after the social media site name, followed by the URL
(see Sections 9.34–9.36).
9.33 Website Sources
When a website is the source for a webpage (see Section 9.2), follow these
guidelines to format the website source.
Provide the website name (in title case without italics) in the source
element (see Section 6.17): BBC News.
Include a period after the website name, followed by the URL (see
Sections 9.34–9.36).
When the author of the work is the same as the website name, omit the
site name from the source element to avoid repetition (see Chapter 10,
Examples 111). In this case, the source element will consist of only the
URL of the work.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 454 ---

9.34 When to Include DOIs and URLs
The DOI or URL is the final component of the reference list entry. Because
so much scholarship is available and/or retrieved online, most reference list
entries end with either a DOI or a URL. A DOI, or digital object identifier, is
a unique alphanumeric string that identifies content and provides a persistent
link to its location on the internet. It is typically located on the first page of an
article near the copyright notice, and it starts with “https://doi.org/” or
“http://dx.doi.org” or “DOI:” and is followed by a string of letters and
numbers. DOIs begin with the number 10 and contain a prefix and a suffix
separated by a slash. The prefix is a unique number of four or more digits
assigned to the organization by the International DOI Foundation
(https://www.doi.org/); the suffix is assigned by the publisher and was
designed to be flexible with publisher identification standards. The publisher
assigns a DOI to a work when it is published, and many publishers have
retroactively assigned DOIs to works published prior to the implementation
of the DOI system in 2000. Registration agencies, such as Crossref, use DOIs
to provide reference-linking services to the scientific publishing sector. DOIs
can also be found in database records and the reference lists of published
works. A URL, or uniform resource locator, specifies the location of digital
information on the internet and can be found in the address bar of your
internet browser.
URLs in references should link directly to the cited work when possible.
For example, when citing a comment on an online newspaper article, the
URL in the reference should link to the comment itself rather than to the
article or the newspaper’s home page (direct links to comments may be
available if you click the comment’s time stamp and copy the URL for the
comment that appears in your browser).
Follow these guidelines for including DOIs and URLs in references:
Include a DOI for all works that have a DOI, regardless of whether you
used the online version or the print version.
If a print work does not have a DOI, do not include any DOI or URL in
the reference.
If an online work has both a DOI and a URL, include only the DOI.
If an online work has a URL but no DOI, include the URL in the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 455 ---

reference as follows:
For works without DOIs from websites (not including databases),
provide a URL in the reference (as long as the URL will work for
readers).
For works without DOIs from most academic research databases, do
not include a URL or database information in the reference because
these works are widely available (see Section 9.30). The reference
should be the same as the reference for a print version of the work.
For works from databases that publish works of limited circulation
(such as the ERIC database) or original, proprietary material available
only in that database (such as the UpToDate database), include the
name of the database or archive and the URL of the work (see Section
9.30). If the URL requires a login or is session specific, meaning it will
not resolve for readers, provide the URL of the database or archive
home page or login page instead of the URL for the work.
If the URL is no longer working or no longer provides readers access to
the content you intend to cite, follow the guidance for works with no
source (see Section 9.37).
Other alphanumeric identifiers such as the International Standard Book
Number (ISBN) and the International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) are
not included in APA Style references.
9.35 Format of DOIs and URLs
Follow these guidelines to format DOIs and URLs.
Present both DOIs and URLs as hyperlinks (i.e., beginning with “http://”
or “https://”). Because a hyperlink leads readers directly to the content, it
is not necessary to include the words “Retrieved from” or “Accessed
from” before a DOI or URL.
It is acceptable to use either the default display settings for hyperlinks in
your word-processing program (e.g., usually blue font, underlined) or
plain text that is not underlined.
Links should be live if the work is to be published or read online.
Follow the current recommendations of the International DOI Foundation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 456 ---

to format DOIs in the reference list, which as of this publication is as
follows:
https://doi.org/xxxxx
Here, “https://doi.org/” is a way of presenting a DOI as a link, and
“xxxxx” refers to the DOI number. The preferred format of the DOI has
changed over time; although older works use previous formats (e.g.,
“http://dx.doi.org/” or “doi:” or “DOI:” before the DOI number), in your
reference list, standardize DOIs into the current preferred format for all
entries. For example, use https://doi.org/10.1037/a0040251 in your
reference even though that article, published in 2016, presented the
number in an older format.
Why use the new DOI format? The current DOI format presents the
DOI as a direct link to the work rather than as an unlinked number or a
link through a proxy server. It simplifies and standardizes retrieval.
See Chapter 10, Sections 10.1 to 10.3, 10.7, and 10.9, for examples of
references that include DOIs.
Copy and paste the DOI or URL from your web browser directly into your
reference list to avoid transcription errors. Do not change the
capitalization or punctuation of the DOI or URL. Do not add line breaks
manually to the hyperlink; it is acceptable if your word-processing
program automatically adds a break or moves the hyperlink to its own
line. If your work is published, the typesetter may break hyperlinks after
punctuation to improve page flow.
Do not add a period after the DOI or URL because it may interfere with
link functionality.
9.36 DOI or URL Shorteners
When a DOI or URL is long or complex, you may use shortDOIs or
shortened URLs if desired. Use the shortDOI service provided by the
International DOI Foundation (http://shortdoi.org/ ) to create shortDOIs. A
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 457 ---

work can have only one DOI and only one shortDOI; the shortDOI service
will either produce a new shortDOI for a work that has never had one or
retrieve an existing shortDOI.
Some websites provide their own branded shortened URLs, and
independent URL shortening services are available as well. Any shortened
URL is acceptable in a reference as long as you check the link to ensure that
it takes you to the correct location. See Examples 4 and 18 in Chapter 10 for
a shortDOI and a shortened URL, respectively, used in a reference.
9.37 No Source
A reference without a recoverable source cannot be included in the reference
list because readers cannot retrieve the work. In most cases, nonrecoverable
sources such as personal emails, classroom lectures, and intranet sources
should be cited only in the text as personal communications (see Section 8.9).
Online works that are no longer accessible are considered nonrecoverable
sources. Before submitting a paper, test the URLs in your reference list to
ensure that they work and update them as necessary. Do not include broken
URLs in your paper. If the content you cited is no longer available online,
search for an archived version of the page on the Internet Archive
(https://archive.org/) and use the archived URL. If no archived version of the
URL is available, delete the reference list entry and substitute another
reference if possible.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 458 ---

Reference Variations
Some works may be in another language or translated, reprinted, reissued, or
republished. For each of these reference variations, additional information
about the work and/or its publication history is included in the reference list
entry.
9.38 Works in Another Language
Multilingual authors may cite works published in a language other than the
language in which they are writing. For example, an author who understands
both English and Spanish may write a paper in English and cite both English
and Spanish works. From the perspective of readers of that paper, the
language in which the paper is written (in this example, English) is
considered the main language and any other language in the paper (in this
example, Spanish) is considered “another language.”
To cite a work that is in another language, provide the author, date, title,
and source of the work in the original language as well as a translation of the
title in square brackets after the title and before the period (see Chapter 10,
Examples 9, 27, and 85). In the case of a work that is part of a greater whole
(e.g., an edited book chapter), translate only the title of the work being cited
(e.g., the chapter title; see Chapter 10, Example 41); it is not necessary to
translate the title of the greater whole (e.g., the book title). So, for example, if
you are writing in English and cite a Spanish work, provide the author, date,
title, and source in the original Spanish in the reference list, and also provide
the title of the work translated into English in square brackets. The translation
does not have to be literal; the purpose of including the translation is to give
readers a sense of what the work is about. Use appropriate grammar and
punctuation in the translated title. Authors writing in any language can
implement these guidelines.
If the other language uses a different alphabet from the one you are writing
in, transliterate the alphabet into the Roman alphabet. For example, Dutch,
English, French, German, Spanish, and Swahili use the Roman alphabet,
whereas Amharic, Arabic, Farsi, Hebrew, Hindi, Japanese, Korean,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 459 ---

Mandarin, and Russian use other alphabets. If transliteration is not possible or
advisable, it is acceptable to reproduce the original alphabet in the paper. In
that case, use your judgment about where to alphabetize the reference list
entry—let the order of reference list entries found in other published articles
serve as a guide—or place the entry at the end of the list. In any case, provide
a translation of the title of the work in square brackets after the title, before
the period (see Chapter 10, Example 27).
9.39 Translated Works
Cite translated works in the language in which the translation was published.
For example, if a French article was translated into English and you read the
English translation, your reference list entry should be in English. Credit the
translator in the reference for a translated work (see Chapter 10, Examples
10, 28, 29, 35, 36, and 42). For all translated works, also provide the year the
work was originally published in its original language at the end of the
reference in parentheses in the following format:
(Original work published 1955)
See Section 8.15 for how to write the in-text citation for a translated work.
9.40 Reprinted Works
A reprinted work is one that has been published in two places and is available
in both (e.g., a journal article that was reprinted as an edited book chapter).
The reference list entry includes information about both publications to avoid
the appearance of duplicate publication (see Section 1.16). In the reference
list entry for a reprinted work, first provide the information for the work that
you read. Then, in parentheses, provide information about the original
publication. In Chapter 10, see Example 11 for a journal article reprinted in
another journal, Example 43 for a journal article reprinted as a chapter in an
edited book, and Example 44 for a chapter in an edited book reprinted in
another book. See Section 8.15 for how to write the in-text citation for a
reprinted work.
9.41 Republished or Reissued Works
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 460 ---

A republished work is one that went out of print (i.e., was no longer
available) and then was published again; this is common for older works. The
term “reissued” is used in the music industry to refer to the same concept.
When an anthology consists of works that were published previously (as
opposed to new works), the works in that anthology are treated as being
republished rather than reprinted. To cite a republished or reissued work (e.g.,
a work republished in an anthology), provide the details of the new
publication that you used, followed by the year the work was originally
published in parentheses at the end of the reference in the following format:
(Original work published 1922)
In Chapter 10, see Example 10 for an example of a republished journal
article; Examples 28, 29, and 42 for examples of republished books; and
Example 46 for an example of a work republished in an anthology. See
Section 8.15 for how to write the in-text citation for a republished work.
9.42 Religious and Classical Works
Religious works (e.g., Bible, Qur’an, Torah, Bhagavad Gita), classical works
(e.g., ancient Greek and Roman works), and classical literature (e.g., by
Shakespeare) are all cited like books (see Section 10.2).
Religious works (see Chapter 10, Example 35) are usually treated as
having no author (see Section 9.12). However, an annotated version of a
religious work would be treated as having an editor.
The year of original publication of a religious work may be unknown or in
dispute and is not included in the reference in those cases. However,
versions of religious works such as the Bible may be republished; these
republished dates are included in the reference (see Section 9.41 and
Chapter 10, Example 35).
For translated religious and classical works, include the translator’s name
in the reference (see Section 9.39 and Chapter 10, Example 28).
Classical works (e.g., ancient Greek and Roman works; see Chapter 10,
Example 36) and works of classical literature (e.g., by Shakespeare; see
Chapter 10, Example 37) are treated as republished works (see Section
9.41).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 461 ---

When the date of original publication for a classical work is ancient, use
the abbreviation “B.C.E.” (which stands for “before the common era”),
and if that date is approximate, use the abbreviation “ca.” (which stands
for “circa”; see Chapter 10, Example 36). Dates in the common era do not
need to be noted as “C.E.” (“common era”) or “A.D.” (“anno Domini”).
If a religious or classical work has canonically numbered parts common
across editions (e.g., books, chapters, verses, lines, cantos), use these
numbers instead of page numbers when referring to a specific part of the
work (see Section 8.13) or directly quoting the work (see Section 8.28).
See Section 8.28 for how to format the in-text citation for these works.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 462 ---

Reference List Format and Order
9.43 Format of the Reference List
The following guidelines will help you properly format your reference list in
APA Style:
Begin the reference list on a new page after the text.
Place the section label “References” in bold at the top of the page,
centered.
Order the reference list entries alphabetically by author, as described in
Sections 9.44 to 9.48.
Double-space the entire reference list (both within and between entries).
Apply a hanging indent of 0.5 in. to each reference list entry, meaning that
the first line of the reference is flush left and subsequent lines are indented
0.5 in. from the left margin. Use the paragraph-formatting function of
your word-processing program to apply the hanging indent.
9.44 Order of Works in the Reference List
Works are listed in alphabetical order in the reference list by the first word of
the reference list entry, according to the following principles:
Arrange entries in alphabetical order by the surname of the first author
followed by the initials of the author’s given name(s). In APA Style for
alphabetizing names, “nothing precedes something”: Loft, V. H. precedes
Loftus, E. F., even though “u” precedes “v” in the alphabet.
When alphabetizing names, disregard any spaces or punctuation marks
(e.g., apostrophes, hyphens) in two-word surnames. Also disregard
anything in parentheses (e.g., roles like “Eds.”) or square brackets (e.g.,
usernames).
Alphabetize entries by authors who have the same given name and
surname with suffixes indicating birth order chronologically, oldest first.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 463 ---

See Figure 9.2 for examples of how to order works in the reference list. For
further examples, review the reference lists of published articles or the
sample papers on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org).
Figure 9.2 Examples of the Order of Works in a Reference List
9.45 Order of Surname and Given Name
Naming practices for the order of given name and surname vary by culture; in
some cultures, the given name appears before the surname, whereas in others,
the surname appears first. If you are uncertain of which name order you are
reading, check the author’s preferred form (e.g., by visiting their website or
their institution’s website or by reading their bio or CV), or consult the
author’s previous publications to see how their name was presented there. For
example, an author may publish as “Zhang Yi-Chen” in China but as “Yi-
Chen Zhang” in the United States; in either case, according to APA Style,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 464 ---

this author would be listed as “Zhang, Y.-C.,” in the reference list. See
Section 9.9 for more.
9.46 Order of Multiple Works by the Same First Author
When ordering multiple works by the same first author in the reference list,
include the author’s name in every entry.
One-author entries should be arranged by year of publication, the earliest
first. References with no date precede references with dates, and in-press
references are listed last.
Patel, S. N. (n.d.).
Patel, S. N. (2016).
Patel, S. N. (2020a).
Patel, S. N. (2020b, April).
Patel, S. N. (in press).
One-author entries should precede multiple-author entries beginning with
the same first author, even if the multiple-author work was published
earlier.
Davison, T. E. (2019).
Davison, T. E., & McCabe, M. P. (2015).
Multiple-author entries in which all authors appear in the same order
should be arranged by the year of publication (the same as one-author
entries).
Costa, P. T., Jr., & McCrae, R. R. (2013).
Costa, P. T., Jr., & McCrae, R. R. (2014).
Multiple-author entries with the same first author and different subsequent
authors should be arranged alphabetically by the surname of the second
author or, if the second author is the same, the surname of the third author,
and so forth.
Jacobson, T. E., Duncan, B., & Young, S. E. (2019).
Jacobson, T. E., & Raymond, K. M. (2017).
Pfeiffer, S. J., Chu, W.-W., & Park, S. H. (2018).
Pfeiffer, S. J., Chu, W.-W., & Wall, T. L. (2018).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 465 ---

9.47 Order of Works With the Same Author and Same Date
Ambiguity can arise when multiple works cited in a paper have the same
author and date (i.e., the same author[s] in the same order and the same year
of publication) because the same in-text citation would then correspond to
multiple reference list entries. To differentiate references with the same
author and year, put a lowercase letter after the year in both the in-text
citation and the reference list entry.
The letter format for references with years is “2020a,” “2020b.”
The letter format for references with no date is “n.d.-a,” “n.d.-b.”
The letter format for in-press references is in “in press-a,” “in press-b.”
Assigning the letters is a two-step process. First, compare the dates.
References with only a year precede those with more specific dates, and
specific dates are placed in chronological order.
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A. (2020a).
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A. (2020b, March 26).
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A. (2020c, April 2).
Second, if the references have identical dates, alphabetize the references by
title (disregarding the words “A,” “An,” and “The” at the beginning of a
reference title). The following are examples of references in the proper order.
Judge, T. A., & Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D. (2012a). General and specific
measures in organizational behavior research: Considerations,
examples, and recommendations for researchers. Journal of
Organizational Behavior, 33(2), 161–174. https://doi.org/10.1002/job.764
Judge, T. A., & Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D. (2012b). On the value of aiming
high: The causes and consequences of ambition. Journal of Applied
Psychology, 97(4), 758–775. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0028084
However, if references with the same author and date are identified as articles
in a series (e.g., Part 1 and Part 2), order the references in the series order,
regardless of the titles’ alphabetical order.
For citing works with the same author and date in text, see Section 8.19.
9.48 Order of Works by First Authors With the Same Surname
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 466 ---

Arrange works by first authors with the same surname and different initials
alphabetically by first initial(s).
Taylor, J. M., & Neimeyer, G. J. (2015).
Taylor, T. (2014).
The in-text citations for these references also include the initials of the first
author (see Section 8.20). These guidelines apply to only the first author in
each reference.
If multiple first authors share the same surname and the same initials, order
the works as described in Sections 9.46 and 9.47. This guideline applies
regardless of whether the authors are different people or the same person with
a name change. For guidance on the corresponding in-text citations, see
Section 8.20.
9.49 Order of Works With No Author or an Anonymous Author
Before treating a work as though it has no author, consider whether a group
or organization is the author (see Section 9.11). If, and only if‚ the work is
signed “Anonymous,” begin the entry with the word “Anonymous,” and
alphabetize the entry as if Anonymous were a true name.
If there is no author and the work is not signed “Anonymous,” the
reference begins with the work’s title (see Section 9.12); alphabetize the entry
by the first significant word of the title (i.e., ignoring the words “A,” “An,”
and “The” at the beginning of the title).
Alphabetize numerals as though they were spelled out (e.g., alphabetize 22
as though it were “twenty-two”). Thus, “Top 100 business schools” precedes
“Top 10 nursing specialties” because when spelled out, “one hundred”
appears alphabetically before “ten.” Likewise, “Theological studies” precedes
“200 years” because “theological” precedes “two hundred.”
For citing works with no author in text, see Section 8.14.
9.50 Abbreviations in References
Some parts of books, reports, and other publications are
abbreviated in the reference list to save space, including the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 467 ---

following examples. Many, but not all, reference
abbreviations are capitalized.
Abbreviation Book or publication part
ed. edition
Rev. ed. revised edition
2nd ed. second edition
Ed. (Eds.) editor (editors)
Trans. translator(s)
Narr. (Narrs.) narrator (narrators)
n.d. no date
p. (pp.) page (pages)
para. (paras.) paragraph (paragraphs)
Vol. (Vols.) volume (volumes)
No. number
Pt. part
Tech. Rep. technical report
Suppl. supplement
9.51 Annotated Bibliographies
An annotated bibliography is a type of student paper in which reference list
entries are followed by short descriptions of the work called annotations.
Annotated bibliographies can also constitute one element of a research paper
in fields that require bibliographies rather than reference lists. Most APA
Style guidelines are applicable to annotated bibliographies. For guidance on
paper margins, font, and line spacing, see Chapter 2. This chapter provides
guidelines for creating and properly ordering references in an annotated
bibliography. For templates and examples of reference list entries, see
Chapter 10. When writing the text of your annotations, consult the writing
style and grammar guidelines in Chapter 4, the bias-free language guidelines
in Chapter 5, and the mechanics of style guidelines in Chapter 6. In general, it
is not necessary to cite the work being annotated in the annotation because
the origin of the information is clear through context. However, do include
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 468 ---

in-text citations (see Chapter 8) if you refer to multiple works within an
annotation to clarify the source.
Instructors generally set all other requirements for annotated bibliographies
(e.g., number of references to include, length and focus of each annotation).
In the absence of other guidance, format an annotated bibliography as
follows:
Format and order references in an annotated bibliography in alphabetical
order, the same as you would order entries in a reference list (see Sections
9.43–9.44).
Each annotation should be a new paragraph below its reference entry.
Indent the entire annotation 0.5 in. from the left margin, the same as you
would a block quotation (see Section 8.27). Do not indent the first line of
the annotation.
If the annotation spans multiple paragraphs, indent the first line of the
second and any subsequent paragraphs an additional 0.5 in., the same as
you would a block quotation with multiple paragraphs.
See Figure 9.3 for an example of an annotated bibliography.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 469 ---

Figure 9.3 Sample Annotated Bibliography
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 470 ---

9.52 References Included in a Meta-Analysis
Studies included in a meta-analysis (see Sections 3.12 and 3.17) should be
incorporated alphabetically into the reference list for the paper; the meta-
analysis references should not be presented in a separate list. Place an asterisk
at the beginning of each reference that was included in the meta-analysis. On
the first page of the reference list, below the “References” section label, insert
the following statement (indented as a new paragraph) describing the purpose
of the asterisks: “References marked with an asterisk indicate studies
included in the meta-analysis.” See Figure 9.4 for an example.
References included in the meta-analysis do not have to be cited in the text.
However, they can be cited at the author’s discretion (e.g., in a table for
comparison; see Chapter 7, Table 7.4). In-text citations do not include
asterisks.
Figure 9.4 Use of Asterisks to Indicate Studies Included in a Meta-
Analysis
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 471 ---

35

References
References marked with an asterisk indicate studies included in the meta-analysis.
*Angel, L., Bastin, C., Genon, S., Balteau, E., Phillips, C., Luxen, A., Maquet, P., Salmon, E., &
Collette, F. (2013). Differential effects of aging on the neural correlates of
recollection and familiarity. Cortex, 49(6), 1585-1597.

https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cortex.2012.10.002

Finley, J. R., Tullis, J. G., & Benjamin, A. S. (2010). Metacognitive control of learning and
remembering. In M. S. Khine & |. M. Saleh (Eds.), New science of learning: Cognition,
computers and collaboration in education (pp. 109-131). Springer.

https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-5716-0 6

*Hanaki, R., Abe, N., Fujii, T., Ueno, A., Nishio, Y., Hiraoka, K., Shimomura, T., lizuka, O.,
Shinohara, M., Hirayama, K., & Mori, E. (2011). The effects of aging and Alzheimer’s
disease on associative recognition memory. Neurological Sciences, 32(6), 1115—
1122. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10072-011-0748-4

Hargis, M. B., & Castel, A. D. (2018). Younger and older adults’ associative memory for
medication interactions of varying severity. Memory, 26(8), 1151-1158.

https://doi.org/10.1080/09658211.2018.1441423

Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish



--- Page 472 ---

10
REFERENCE
EXAMPLES
Appropriately crediting the contributions of scholars on
which your research and writing are based is a hallmark of
scholarly discourse. These contributions must be cited
accurately and consistently so that future scholars can
identify and retrieve the works cited in the text.
In this chapter, we provide examples of references in
APA Style and their corresponding in-text citations. The
reference examples are organized first by group, then by
category, and then by type, as follows:
The textual works group (Sections 10.1–10.8) contains
the categories of periodicals, books and reference works,
edited book chapters and reference work entries, reports
and gray literature, conference sessions and
presentations, dissertations and theses, reviews of other
works, and unpublished and informally published works.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 473 ---

Within those categories are examples by type (e.g.,
journal article, edited book chapter, government report,
dissertation).
The data sets, software, and tests group (Sections
10.9–10.11) contains the categories of data sets;
computer software, mobile apps, apparatuses, and
equipment; and tests, scales, and inventories. Within
those categories are examples by type (e.g., unpublished
raw data, entry in a mobile reference work, test scoring
manual).
The audiovisual media group (Sections 10.12–10.14)
contains the categories of audiovisual works, audio
works, and visual works. Within those categories are
examples by type (e.g., YouTube video, speech audio
recording, podcast episode, PowerPoint slides).
The online media group (Sections 10.15–10.16)
contains the categories of social media and webpages
and websites. Within those categories are examples by
type (e.g., Instagram photo, tweet, webpage on a news
website).
As described in Chapter 9, the key elements of a
reference are the author (who), date (when), title (what),
and source (where; see also Figure 9.1). For each reference
category, a corresponding template illustrates the order and
format in which these elements should appear, and
examples of the most common reference types follow. If
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 474 ---

you do not see an example that matches the work you want
to cite, use the template for the applicable reference
category as a starting point for writing the reference list
entry. Then select the appropriate option from each column
of the template to write the reference. Mix and match
elements within a template; it is not necessary to use
multiple templates. When in doubt, provide more
information rather than less. For every reference, the in-text
citation contains the first two parts of the reference—
usually the “who” (author) and the “when” (date; see
Section 8.11), although this can change if reference
information is missing (see Table 9.1).
Most legal references (e.g., court cases and laws) are
formatted in a legal reference style, which is different in
several ways from the author–date–title–source pattern of
other APA Style references. Legal references are presented
in Chapter 11. Additional reference examples, including
references to archival documents, are available on the APA
Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org) and on the APA
Style blog (https://apastyle.apa.org/blog).
The following index of reference examples is organized
by variations in each reference element. The numbers after
each index entry refer to the numbered reference examples
in this chapter.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 475 ---

Author Variations
Type of author
artist (recording), 91, 92
artist (visual), 97, 98, 99
cartographer, 100
composer, 91, 92
director, 84, 85, 87
editor
in place of author, 12, 24, 25, 26, 30, 33, 34
credited on authored book cover, 23
executive producer, 86
group author
association, company, or organization, 32, 33, 47, 55,
59, 75, 76, 78, 79, 80, 82, 88, 90, 100, 103, 104,
105, 107, 108, 109, 111, 113
government agency, 50, 54, 75, 103, 105, 106, 109,
111, 114
in combination with individuals, 5
task force, working group, or other group, 5, 53
guest expert, 84
host, 84, 93, 94
instructor
of a course, 102
of a webinar, 89
interviewee, 95
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 476 ---

narrator, 22, 29
photographer, 101
principal investigator, 56
speaker, 88, 89, 96
“with” author, see Section 9.8
writer for TV show, 87
Name variations
apostrophe in name, 71, 75
beginning with a lowercase letter, 95
hyphenated first name, 24, 74
hyphenated surname, 9, 45, 73, 81, 83
Jr. in name, 96
one-word name, 36, 92, 98
prefix included after initials rather than before surname,
92
transliterated name, 27
two-part surname, 5, 25, 40, 41, 63, 86, 92, 112
username or social media identity, 18, 90, 103, 104, 107,
108, 109
Number of authors
none, 35, 49
21 or more, 4
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 477 ---

Date Variations
advance online publication (online first publication, epub
ahead of print), 7
ancient (B.C.E.), 36
approximate (ca.), 36
in press, 8
no date, 33, 47, 82, 100, 104, 106, 108, 113, 114
range
of years, 56, 86, 93, 97
with year, month, and day, 60, 61, 62, 63
reprinted, 11, 43, 44
republished, 29, 35, 36, 37, 46, 91, 92
republished in translation, 10, 28, 29, 42
retrieval date, 14, 33, 47, 100, 104, 106, 114
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 478 ---

Title Variations
edition or version included, 20, 28, 30, 32, 33, 35, 39, 40,
45, 48, 75, 79, 80
ends with
exclamation point, 109
parenthesis, 87
question mark, 17, 90, 110
hashtags included, 103
identification number included, 50, 56, 57, 74, 75, 83
in another language, 9, 27, 41, 85
no title, 76, 100, 101, 102
proper noun included, 5, 15, 27, 33, 34, 35, 40, 50, 51, 52,
53, 55, 59, 65, 67, 68, 69, 74, 75, 76, 78, 79, 81, 87, 88,
91, 95, 97, 105, 107, 109, 113, 114
reverse italics, 69
title within a title, 67, 68, 69
translated, 10, 28, 29, 35, 36, 42
transliterated, 27
two subtitles, 50
volume number for a book, 27, 30, 45
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 479 ---

Source Variations
article number or eLocator, 6
location included, 60, 61, 62, 63, 97
multiple publishers (or studios, etc.), 24, 86, 92, 95
multivolume work, 30, 45
publisher (or studio, etc.) same as author, 32, 54, 55
reprinted, 11, 43, 44
republished, 29, 35, 36, 37, 46, 91, 92
republished in translation, 10, 28, 29, 42
retrieval date, 14, 33, 47, 100, 104, 106, 114
shortDOI, 4, 43
shortened URL, 18, 22, 29, 62, 68, 90, 100, 105, 108
special section or special issue, 12
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 480 ---

Textual Works
10.1 Periodicals
Periodicals are generally published on a continuous basis
and include journals, magazines, newspapers, newsletters,
and even blogs and other online platforms that publish
articles. Sometimes the distinctions between periodical
types are ambiguous—for example, a blog that is hosted on
a newspaper website. Regardless of where the work
appears, its reference list entry follows the same pattern.
The date element is presented in different formats for
journal, magazine, and newspaper articles and blog posts
(see Examples 1, 15, 16, and 17, respectively). When
periodical information (e.g., volume number, issue number,
page range) is missing, omit it from the reference. For
online news websites, see Section 10.16 and Example 110.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
periodical articles.
Author Date Title
Source
Periodical
information DOI or URL
Author, A. A., &
Author, B. B.
Name of Group.
Author, C. C.
[username].
Username.
(2020).
(2020,
January).
(2020,
February
16).
Title of
article.
Title of Periodical,
34(2), 5–14.
Title of Periodical,
2(1–2), Article 12.
Title of Periodical.
https://doi.org/xxxx
https://xxxxx
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 481 ---

 1. Journal article with a DOI
McCauley, S. M., & Christiansen, M. H. (2019). Language
learning as language use: A cross-linguistic model of child
language development. Psychological Review, 126(1), 1–51.
https://doi.org/10.1037/rev0000126
Parenthetical citation: (McCauley & Christiansen, 2019)
Narrative citation: McCauley and Christiansen (2019)
 2. Journal article without a DOI, with a nondatabase URL
Ahmann, E., Tuttle, L. J., Saviet, M., & Wright, S. D. (2018). A
descriptive review of ADHD coaching research: Implications
for college students. Journal of Postsecondary Education and
Disability, 31(1), 17–39. https://www.ahead.org/professional-
resources/publications/jped/archived-jped/jped-volume-31
Parenthetical citation: (Ahmann et al., 2018)
Narrative citation: Ahmann et al. (2018)
 3. Journal, magazine, or newspaper article without a DOI, from
most academic research databases or print version
Anderson, M. (2018). Getting consistent with consequences.
Educational Leadership, 76(1), 26–33.
Goldman, C. (2018, November 28). The complicated calibration
of love, especially in adoption. Chicago Tribune.
Parenthetical citations: (Anderson, 2018; Goldman, 2018)
Narrative citations: Anderson (2018) and Goldman (2018)
Do not include the database name or URL. See Section 9.30 for
more on excluding or including database information in references.
 4. Journal article with a DOI, 21 or more authors
Kalnay, E., Kanamitsu, M., Kistler, R., Collins, W., Deaven, D.,
Gandin, L., Iredell, M., Saha, S., White, G., Woollen, J., Zhu,
Y., Chelliah, M., Ebisuzaki, W., Higgins, W., Janowiak, J.,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 482 ---

Mo, K. C., Ropelewski, C., Wang, J., Leetmaa, A., . . .
Joseph, D. (1996). The NCEP/NCAR 40-year reanalysis
project. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society,
77(3), 437–471. http://doi.org/fg6rf9
Parenthetical citation: (Kalnay et al., 1996)
Narrative citation: Kalnay et al. (1996)
Because the original DOI was long and complex, a shortDOI is
used (see Section 9.36). Either the long or short form of the DOI is
acceptable.
 5. Journal article with a DOI, combination of individual and
group authors
De Vries, R., Nieuwenhuijze, M., Buitendijk, S. E., & the
members of Midwifery Science Work Group. (2013). What
does it take to have a strong and independent profession of
midwifery? Lessons from the Netherlands. Midwifery, 29(10),
1122–1128. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.midw.2013.07.007
Parenthetical citation: (De Vries et al., 2013)
Narrative citation: De Vries et al. (2013)
Write the name of the group author as shown on the source (see
Section 9.11). This byline included the wording “the members of.”
 6. Journal article with an article number or eLocator
Burin, D., Kilteni, K., Rabuffetti, M., Slater, M., & Pia, L. (2019).
Body ownership increases the interference between
observed and executed movements. PLOS ONE, 14(1),
Article e0209899.
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0209899
Parenthetical citation: (Burin et al., 2019)
Narrative citation: Burin et al. (2019)
Capitalize the word “Article” before the article number or eLocator.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 483 ---

 7. Journal article, advance online publication
Huestegge, S. M., Raettig, T., & Huestegge, L. (2019). Are face-
incongruent voices harder to process? Effects of face–voice
gender incongruency on basic cognitive information
processing. Experimental Psychology. Advance online
publication. https://doi.org/10.1027/1618-3169/a000440
Parenthetical citation: (Huestegge et al., 2019)
Narrative citation: Huestegge et al. (2019)
See Section 8.5 for further information on which version of an
article to cite.
 8. Journal article, in press
Pachur, T., & Scheibehenne, B. (in press). Unpacking buyer–
seller differences in valuation from experience: A cognitive
modeling approach. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review.
Parenthetical citation: (Pachur & Scheibehenne, in press)
Narrative citation: Pachur and Scheibehenne (in press)
 9. Journal article, published in another language
Chaves-Morillo, V., Gómez Calero, C., Fernández-Muñoz, J. J.,
Toledano-Muñoz, A., Fernández-Huete, J., Martínez-Monge,
N., Palacios-Ceña, D., & Peñacoba-Puente, C. (2018). La
anosmia neurosensorial: Relación entre subtipo, tiempo de
reconocimiento y edad [Sensorineural anosmia: Relationship
between subtype, recognition time, and age]. Clínica y Salud,
28(3), 155–161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clysa.2017.04.002
Parenthetical citation: (Chaves-Morillo et al., 2018)
Narrative citation: Chaves-Morillo et al. (2018)
When an article is in a different language than your paper, include a
translation of the article title in square brackets (see Section 9.38).
 10. Journal article, republished in translation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 484 ---

Piaget, J. (1972). Intellectual evolution from adolescence to
adulthood (J. Bliss & H. Furth, Trans.). Human Development,
15(1), 1–12. https://doi.org/10.1159/000271225 (Original
work published 1970)
Parenthetical citation: (Piaget, 1970/1972)
Narrative citation: Piaget (1970/1972)
For more on translated works, see Section 9.39.
 11. Journal article, reprinted from another source
Shore, M. F. (2014). Marking time in the land of plenty:
Reflections on mental health in the United States. American
Journal of Orthopsychiatry, 84(6), 611–618.
https://doi.org/10.1037/h0100165 (Reprinted from “Marking
time in the land of plenty: Reflections on mental health in the
United States,” 1981, American Journal of Orthopsychiatry,
51[3], 391–402, https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1939-
0025.1981.tb01388.x)
Parenthetical citation: (Shore, 1981/2014)
Narrative citation: Shore (1981/2014)
Provide information for the reprinted version that you used; then
provide in parentheses the original article title (even if the title did
not change), year, and source information (see Section 9.40).
Place the original issue number in square brackets rather than in
parentheses to avoid nested parentheses.
 12. Special section or special issue in a journal
Lilienfeld, S. O. (Ed.). (2018). Heterodox issues in psychology
[Special section]. Archives of Scientific Psychology, 6(1), 51–
104.
McDaniel, S. H., Salas, E., & Kazak, A. E. (Eds.). (2018). The
science of teamwork [Special issue]. American Psychologist,
73(4).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 485 ---

Parenthetical citations: (Lilienfeld, 2018; McDaniel et al.,
2018)
Narrative citations: Lilienfeld (2018) and McDaniel et al.
(2018)
List the editor(s) of the special section or issue in the author
position and the title of the special section or issue in the title
position.
Provide the page range for a special section. Do not provide a page
range for a special issue.
Some publishers include an “S” in issue numbers for special issues.
In the reference, write the issue number exactly as shown in the
publication.
For an article within a special section or special issue, follow the
format for a journal article (see Examples 1–3), in which case the
title of the special section or issue does not appear in the reference.
 13. Article from the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews
Mehrholz, J., Pohl, M., Platz, T., Kugler, J., & Elsner, B. (2018).
Electromechanical and robot-assisted arm training for
improving activities of daily living, arm function, and arm
muscle strength after stroke. Cochrane Database of
Systematic Reviews.
https://doi.org/10.1002/14651858.CD006876.pub5
Parenthetical citation: (Mehrholz et al., 2018)
Narrative citation: Mehrholz et al. (2018)
Articles in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews are
available only in that database (see Section 9.30). In the reference
list, format Cochrane articles like periodical articles. Do not
italicize the database name if it appears in text.
 14. Article from the UpToDate database
Morey, M. C. (2019). Physical activity and exercise in older
adults. UpToDate. Retrieved July 22, 2019, from
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 486 ---

https://www.uptodate.com/contents/physical-activity-and-
exercise-in-older-adults
Parenthetical citation: (Morey, 2019)
Narrative citation: Morey (2019)
Articles in the UpToDate database are available only in that
database (see Section 9.30) and have information that changes over
time. In the reference list, format UpToDate articles like periodical
articles. Do not italicize the database name if it appears in text.
Use the year of last update in the date element (see Section 9.15).
Include a retrieval date because the content is designed to change
over time and versions of the page are not archived (see Section
9.16).
 15. Magazine article
Bergeson, S. (2019, January 4). Really cool neutral plasmas.
Science, 363(6422), 33–34.
https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aau7988
Bustillos, M. (2013, March 19). On video games and storytelling:
An interview with Tom Bissell. The New Yorker.
https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/on-video-
games-and-storytelling-an-interview-with-tom-bissell
Weir, K. (2017, January). Forgiveness can improve mental and
physical health. Monitor on Psychology, 48(1), 30.
Parenthetical citations: (Bergeson, 2019; Bustillos, 2013;
Weir, 2017)
Narrative citations: Bergeson (2019), Bustillos (2013), and
Weir (2017)
 16. Newspaper article
Guarino, B. (2017, December 4). How will humanity react to
alien life? Psychologists have some predictions. The
Washington Post.
https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/speaking-of-
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 487 ---

science/wp/2017/12/04/how-will-humanity-react-to-alien-life-
psychologists-have-some-predictions
Hess, A. (2019, January 3). Cats who take direction. The New
York Times, C1.
Parenthetical citations: (Guarino, 2017; Hess, 2019)
Narrative citations: Guarino (2017) and Hess (2019)
To cite articles from online news websites (vs. online newspapers
as shown here), see Example 110.
 17. Blog post
Klymkowsky, M. (2018, September 15). Can we talk scientifically
about free will? Sci-Ed.
https://blogs.plos.org/scied/2018/09/15/can-we-talk-
scientifically-about-free-will/
Parenthetical citation: (Klymkowsky, 2018)
Narrative citation: Klymkowsky (2018)
 18. Comment on an online periodical article or post
KS in NJ. (2019, January 15). From this article, it sounds like
men are figuring something out that women have known
forever. I know of many [Comment on the article “How
workout buddies can help stave off loneliness”]. The
Washington Post. https://wapo.st/2HDToGJ
Parenthetical citation: (KS in NJ, 2019)
Narrative citation: KS in NJ (2019)
Credit the person who left the comment as the author using the
format that appears with the comment (i.e., a real name or a
username).
Provide the comment title or up to the first 20 words of the
comment; then write “Comment on the article” and the title of the
article on which the comment appeared (in quotation marks and
sentence case, enclosed within square brackets).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 488 ---

Link to the comment itself if possible (see Sections 9.33–9.34).
Because the comment URL was long and complex, it has been
shortened (see Section 9.36). Either the long or the short form of the
URL is acceptable.
 19. Editorial
Cuellar, N. G. (2016). Study abroad programs [Editorial]. Journal
of Transcultural Nursing, 27(3), 209.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1043659616638722
Parenthetical citation: (Cuellar, 2016)
Narrative citation: Cuellar (2016)
Use the reference format for the publication in which the editorial
was published. This example shows an editorial from a journal;
editorials also appear in magazines, newspapers, and other
publications.
Include the notation “Editorial” in square brackets after the title
(except when the word “Editorial” is included in the title).
If the editorial is unsigned, follow the guidelines in Sections 8.14
and 9.12 for the in-text citation and reference list entry,
respectively.
10.2 Books and Reference Works
The books category includes authored books, edited books,
anthologies, religious works, and classical works. The
reference works category includes dictionaries,
encyclopedias (including Wikipedia), and diagnostic
manuals. For ebooks, the format, platform, or device (e.g.,
Kindle) is not included in the reference. For audiobooks,
include the narrator and audiobook notation only in specific
cases (see Examples 22 and 29). For a chapter in an
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 489 ---

authored book, create a reference for the whole book (see
Examples 20–23) and provide the chapter number with the
in-text citation only (see Section 8.13). Use the template
shown next to construct references for books and reference
works.
Author or
editor Date Title
Source
Publisher
information DOI or URL
Author, A.
A., & Author,
B. B.
Name of
Group.
Editor, E. E.
(Ed.).
Editor, E. E.,
& Editor, F.
F. (Eds.).
(2020). Title of book.
Title of book (2nd
ed., Vol. 4).
Title of book
[Audiobook].
Title of book (E. E.
Editor, Ed.).
Title of book (T.
Translator, Trans.;
N. Narrator, Narr.).
Publisher Name.
First Publisher
Name; Second
Publisher Name.
https://doi.org/xxxx
https://xxxxx
 20. Authored book with a DOI
Brown, L. S. (2018). Feminist therapy (2nd ed.). American
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000092-
000
Parenthetical citation: (Brown, 2018)
Narrative citation: Brown (2018)
 21. Authored book without a DOI, from most academic research
databases or print version
Burgess, R. (2019). Rethinking global health: Frameworks of
power. Routledge.
Parenthetical citation: (Burgess, 2019)
Narrative citation: Burgess (2019)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 490 ---

See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in
references.
 22. Authored ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook without a
DOI, with a nondatabase URL
Cain, S. (2012). Quiet: The power of introverts in a world that
can’t stop talking (K. Mazur, Narr.) [Audiobook]. Random
House Audio. http://bit.ly/2G0BpbI
Christian, B., & Griffiths, T. (2016). Algorithms to live by: The
computer science of human decisions. Henry Holt and Co.
http://a.co/7qGBZAk
Parenthetical citations: (Cain, 2012; Christian & Griffiths,
2016)
Narrative citations: Cain (2012) and Christian and Griffiths
(2016)
It is not necessary to note when you used an audiobook versus a
book or an ebook when the content is the same, even if the format is
different. However, do note that the work is an audiobook in the
title element when the content is different (e.g., abridged), if you
want to note something special about the audiobook (e.g., the
impact of the narration on the listener), or if you quote from the
audiobook (see Section 8.28).
If the audiobook was released in a different year from the text
version of the book, treat the work as republished (see Example 29).
 23. Authored book with editor credited on the book cover
Meadows, D. H. (2008). Thinking in systems: A primer (D.
Wright, Ed.). Chelsea Green Publishing.
Parenthetical citation: (Meadows, 2008)
Narrative citation: Meadows (2008)
When an editor is credited on the cover of an authored book,
provide the editor’s name in parentheses after the book title with
“Ed.” or “Eds.” in parentheses (see Section 9.10).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 491 ---

 24. Edited book with a DOI, with multiple publishers
Schmid, H.-J. (Ed.). (2017). Entrenchment and the psychology
of language learning: How we reorganize and adapt linguistic
knowledge. American Psychological Association; De Gruyter
Mouton. https://doi.org/10.1037/15969-000
Parenthetical citation: (Schmid, 2017)
Narrative citation: Schmid (2017)
Separate multiple publisher names using semicolons.
 25. Edited book without a DOI, from most academic research
databases or print version
Hacker Hughes, J. (Ed.). (2017). Military veteran psychological
health and social care: Contemporary approaches.
Routledge.
Parenthetical citation: (Hacker Hughes, 2017)
Narrative citation: Hacker Hughes (2017)
See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in
references.
 26. Edited ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook without a DOI,
with a nondatabase URL
Pridham, K. F., Limbo, R., & Schroeder, M. (Eds.). (2018).
Guided participation in pediatric nursing practice:
Relationship-based teaching and learning with parents,
children, and adolescents. Springer Publishing Company.
http://a.co/0IAiVgt
Parenthetical citation: (Pridham et al., 2018)
Narrative citation: Pridham et al. (2018)
An ebook example is shown. See Example 22 for information about
when a notation is needed after an audiobook title.
 27. Book in another language
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 492 ---

Amano, N., & Kondo, H. (2000). Nihongo no goi tokusei [Lexical
characteristics of Japanese language] (Vol. 7). Sansei-do.
Piaget, J., & Inhelder, B. (1966). La psychologie de l’enfant [The
psychology of the child]. Quadrige.
Parenthetical citations: (Amano & Kondo, 2000; Piaget &
Inhelder, 1966)
Narrative citations: Amano and Kondo (2000) and Piaget
and Inhelder (1966)
When a book is in a different language than your paper, include a
translation of the book title in square brackets (see Section 9.38).
 28. Book republished in translation
Piaget, J., & Inhelder, B. (1969). The psychology of the child (H.
Weaver, Trans.; 2nd ed.). Basic Books. (Original work
published 1966)
Parenthetical citation: (Piaget & Inhelder, 1966/1969)
Narrative citation: Piaget and Inhelder (1966/1969)
For more on translated works, see Section 9.39.
 29. Republished book, ebook, or audiobook
Freud, S. (2010). The interpretation of dreams: The complete
and definitive text (J. Strachey, Ed. & Trans.). Basic Books.
(Original work published 1900)
Rowling, J. K. (2015). Harry Potter and the sorcerer’s stone (J.
Dale, Narr.) [Audiobook]. Pottermore Publishing.
http://bit.ly/2TcHchx (Original work published 1997)
Parenthetical citations: (Freud, 1900/2010; Rowling,
1997/2015)
Narrative citations: Freud (1900/2010) and Rowling
(1997/2015)
If the new version has been edited and/or translated from the
original, provide the name(s) of the editor(s) and/or translator(s)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 493 ---

after the title in parentheses.
If an audiobook was released in a different year than the text
version of the book, treat the audiobook as republished (see also
Example 22 and Section 9.41).
 30. One volume of a multivolume work
Fiske, S. T., Gilbert, D. T., & Lindzey, G. (2010). Handbook of
social psychology (5th ed., Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sons.
https://doi.org/10.1002/9780470561119
Travis, C. B., & White, J. W. (Eds.). (2018). APA handbook of
the psychology of women: Vol. 1. History, theory, and
battlegrounds. American Psychological Association.
https://doi.org/10.1037/0000059-000
Parenthetical citations: (Fiske et al., 2010; Travis & White,
2018)
Narrative citations: Fiske et al. (2010) and Travis and White
(2018)
If the volume has both series editors (or editors-in-chief) and
volume editors, only the volume editors appear in the author
element.
If the volume does not have its own title, include the volume
number in parentheses without italics (as in the Fiske et al.
example).
If the volume has its own title, include the volume number and title
after the main title in italics (as in the Travis & White example).
 31. Book in a series
Madigan, S. (2019). Narrative therapy (2nd ed.). American
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000131-
000
Parenthetical citation: (Madigan, 2019)
Narrative citation: Madigan (2019)
For a series of conceptually related titles, the series title is not
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 494 ---

included in the reference (this book is part of the Theories of
Psychotherapy Series; see Section 9.20).
 32. Diagnostic manual (DSM, ICD)
American Psychiatric Association. (2013). Diagnostic and
statistical manual of mental disorders (5th ed.).
https://doi.org/10.1176/appi.books.9780890425596
World Health Organization. (2019). International statistical
classification of diseases and related health problems (11th
ed.). https://icd.who.int/
Parenthetical citation with abbreviation included:
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th
ed.; DSM-5; American Psychiatric Association, 2013)
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and
Related Health Problems (11th ed.; ICD-11; World Health
Organization, 2019)
Narrative citation with abbreviation included:
American Psychiatric Association’s (2013) Diagnostic and
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed.; DSM-5)
World Health Organization’s (2019) International Statistical
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems
(11th ed.; ICD-11)
Subsequent parenthetical citations: (American Psychiatric
Association, 2013; World Health Organization, 2019)
Subsequent narrative citations: American Psychiatric
Association (2013) and World Health Organization (2019)
When the author and publisher are the same, omit the publisher
from the source element.
It is common, but not required, to identify the title (and edition) of a
diagnostic manual in the text. Group authors and manual titles can
be abbreviated in the text (with a few exceptions) but not the
reference list (see Sections 6.25 and 8.21).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 495 ---

Generally, include a citation for a manual the first time it is
mentioned in the text. If the first mention appears in a heading, do
not cite the manual in the heading; rather, cite it within the first
paragraph of that section or soon thereafter.
Do not repeat the citation for a subsequent general mention of a
manual. Repeat a citation only when it directly supports a statement
(e.g., quoting, paraphrasing).
Additional examples and guidance for citing other editions of and
entries in the DSM and ICD are available on the APA Style
website.
 33. Dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia
American Psychological Association. (n.d.). APA dictionary of
psychology. Retrieved June 14, 2019, from
https://dictionary.apa.org/
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.). Merriam-Webster.com dictionary.
Retrieved May 5, 2019, from https://www.merriam-
webster.com/
Zalta, E. N. (Ed.). (2019). The Stanford encyclopedia of
philosophy (Summer 2019 ed.). Stanford University.
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2019/
Parenthetical citations: (American Psychological
Association, n.d.; Merriam-Webster, n.d.; Zalta, 2019)
Narrative citations: American Psychological Association
(n.d.), Merriam-Webster (n.d.), and Zalta (2019)
When a stable or archived version of the work is cited (as shown for
the Zalta example), a retrieval date is not needed.
When an online reference work is continuously updated (see
Section 9.15) and the versions are not archived (as with the APA
Dictionary of Psychology and the Merriam-Webster.com
Dictionary examples), use “n.d.” as the year of publication and
include a retrieval date (see Section 9.16).
 34. Anthology
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 496 ---

Gold, M. (Ed.). (1999). The complete social scientist: A Kurt
Lewin reader. American Psychological Association.
https://doi.org/10.1037/10319-000
Parenthetical citation: (Gold, 1999)
Narrative citation: Gold (1999)
Provide the editor(s) of the anthology in the author position of the
reference.
The date refers to the year the anthology was published (for a work
included in an anthology, see Example 46).
 35. Religious work
King James Bible. (2017). King James Bible Online.
https://www.kingjamesbibleonline.org/ (Original work
published 1769)
The Qur’an (M. A. S. Abdel Haleem, Trans.). (2004). Oxford
University Press.
The Torah: The five books of Moses (3rd ed.). (2015). The
Jewish Publication Society. (Original work published 1962)
Parenthetical citations: (King James Bible, 1769/2017; The
Qur’an, 2004; The Torah, 1962/2015)
Narrative citations: King James Bible (1769/2017), The
Qur’an (2004), and The Torah (1962/2015)
For more on citing religious works, see Section 9.42; to cite a
specific book or verse, see Section 8.13; to quote a passage, see
Section 8.28.
 Additional examples of religious texts are available on the APA
Style website.
 36. Ancient Greek or Roman work
Aristotle. (1994). Poetics (S. H. Butcher, Trans.). The Internet
Classics Archive. http://classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/poetics.html
(Original work published ca. 350 B.C.E.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 497 ---

Parenthetical citation: (Aristotle, ca. 350 B.C.E./1994)
Narrative citation: Aristotle (ca. 350 B.C.E./1994)
For ancient Greek or Roman works, include the copyright date of
the version used in the date element and the date of the original
(ancient) publication in parentheses at the end of the entry. When
the date of original publication is approximate, use the abbreviation
“ca.” (which stands for “circa”).
For more on citing classical works, see Section 9.42; to cite a
canonically numbered part of a classical work, see Section 8.13; to
quote a passage, see Section 8.28.
 37. Shakespeare
Shakespeare, W. (1995). Much ado about nothing (B. A. Mowat
& P. Werstine, Eds.). Washington Square Press. (Original
work published 1623)
Parenthetical citation: (Shakespeare, 1623/1995)
Narrative citation: Shakespeare (1623/1995)
For more on citing Shakespeare and other works of classical
literature, see Section 9.42; to cite a specific act, scene, or line, see
Section 8.13; to quote a passage, see Section 8.28.
10.3 Edited Book Chapters and Entries in
Reference Works
The edited book chapter category includes chapters of
edited books and works in anthologies. The entries in
reference works category includes dictionary, thesaurus,
and encyclopedia entries. For ebook chapters or entries, the
format, platform, or device (e.g., Kindle) is not included in
the reference. For audiobook chapters or entries, include
the narrator and audiobook notation only in specific cases
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 498 ---

(see Example 22). For a chapter in an authored book, create
a reference for the whole book (see Examples 20–23) and
provide the chapter number with the in-text citation only
(see Section 8.13). Use the template shown next to
construct references for edited book chapters and entries in
reference works.
Chapter
author Date
Chapter
title
Source
Edited book information DOI or URL
Author, A.
A., &
Author, B.
B.
Name of
Group.
(2020). Title of
chapter.
In E. E. Editor (Ed.), Title of
book (pp. 3–13). Publisher
Name.
In E. E. Editor & F. F. Editor
(Eds.), Title of book (3rd ed.,
Vol. 2, pp. 212–255). Publisher
Name.
https://doi.org/xxxx
https://xxxxx
 38. Chapter in an edited book with a DOI
Balsam, K. F., Martell, C. R., Jones, K. P., & Safren, S. A.
(2019). Affirmative cognitive behavior therapy with sexual
and gender minority people. In G. Y. Iwamasa & P. A. Hays
(Eds.), Culturally responsive cognitive behavior therapy:
Practice and supervision (2nd ed., pp. 287–314). American
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000119-
012
Parenthetical citation: (Balsam et al., 2019)
Narrative citation: Balsam et al. (2019)
 39. Chapter in an edited book without a DOI, from most
academic research databases or print version
Weinstock, R., Leong, G. B., & Silva, J. A. (2003). Defining
forensic psychiatry: Roles and responsibilities. In R. Rosner
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 499 ---

(Ed.), Principles and practice of forensic psychiatry (2nd ed.,
pp. 7–13). CRC Press.
Parenthetical citation: (Weinstock et al., 2003)
Narrative citation: Weinstock et al. (2003)
See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in
references.
 40. Chapter in an edited ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook
without a DOI, with nondatabase URL
Tafoya, N., & Del Vecchio, A. (2005). Back to the future: An
examination of the Native American Holocaust experience. In
M. McGoldrick, J. Giordano, & N. Garcia-Preto (Eds.),
Ethnicity and family therapy (3rd ed., pp. 55–63). Guilford
Press. http://a.co/36xRhBT
Parenthetical citation: (Tafoya & Del Vecchio, 2005)
Narrative citation: Tafoya and Del Vecchio (2005)
See Examples 22 and 29 for further information about audiobooks.
 41. Chapter in an edited book in another language
Carcavilla González, N. (2015). Terapia sensorial auditiva:
Activación cerebral por medio de la música [Auditory sensory
therapy: Brain activation through music]. In J. J. García
Meilán (Ed.), Guía práctica de terapias estimulativas en el
Alzhéimer (pp. 67–86). Editorial Síntesis.
https://www.sintesis.com/guias-profesionales-203/guia-
practica-de-terapias-estimulativas-en-el-alzheimer-libro-
1943.html
Parenthetical citation: (Carcavilla González, 2015)
Narrative citation: Carcavilla González (2015)
When a chapter is in a different language than your paper, include a
translation of the chapter title in square brackets (see Section 9.38
for more).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 500 ---

 42. Chapter in an edited book, republished in translation
Heidegger, M. (2008). On the essence of truth (J. Sallis, Trans.).
In D. F. Krell (Ed.), Basic writings (pp. 111–138). Harper
Perennial Modern Thought. (Original work published 1961)
Parenthetical citation: (Heidegger, 1961/2008)
Narrative citation: Heidegger (1961/2008)
For more on translated works, see Section 9.39.
 43. Chapter in an edited book, reprinted from a journal article
Sacchett, C., & Humphreys, G. W. (2004). Calling a squirrel a
squirrel but a canoe a wigwam: A category-specific deficit for
artefactual objects and body parts. In D. A. Balota & E. J.
Marsh (Eds.), Cognitive psychology: Key readings in
cognition (pp. 100–108). Psychology Press. (Reprinted from
“Calling a squirrel a squirrel but a canoe a wigwam: A
category-specific deficit for artefactual objects and body
parts,” 1992, Cognitive Neuropsychology, 9[1], 73–86,
http://doi.org/d4vb59)
Parenthetical citation: (Sacchett & Humphreys, 1992/2004)
Narrative citation: Sacchett and Humphreys (1992/2004)
Provide information for the reprinted version you used, then
provide in parentheses the original article title (even if the title did
not change), year, and source information (see Section 9.40 for
more).
Place the original journal article issue number in square brackets
rather than parentheses to avoid nested parentheses.
 44. Chapter in an edited book, reprinted from another book
Bronfenbrenner, U. (2005). The social ecology of human
development: A retrospective conclusion. In U.
Bronfenbrenner (Ed.), Making human beings human:
Bioecological perspectives on human development (pp. 27–
40). SAGE Publications. (Reprinted from Brain and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 501 ---

intelligence: The ecology of child development, pp. 113–123,
by F. Richardson, Ed., 1973, National Educational Press)
Parenthetical citation: (Bronfenbrenner, 1973/2005)
Narrative citation: Bronfenbrenner (1973/2005)
Provide information for the reprinted version you used, then
provide in parentheses the original book title, page range, author or
editor name (including “Ed.” for an editor), year, and publisher (see
Section 9.40 for more).
 45. Chapter in a volume of a multivolume work
Goldin-Meadow, S. (2015). Gesture and cognitive development.
In L. S. Liben & U. Mueller (Eds.), Handbook of child
psychology and developmental science: Vol. 2. Cognitive
processes (7th ed., pp. 339–380). John Wiley & Sons.
https://doi.org/10.1002/9781118963418.childpsy209
Parenthetical citation: (Goldin-Meadow, 2015)
Narrative citation: Goldin-Meadow (2015)
If the volume has both series editors (or editors-in-chief) and
volume editors, only the volume editors appear in the reference.
The volume in this example has its own title. See Example 30 for
how to include untitled volume information in parentheses after the
book title.
 46. Work in an anthology
Lewin, K. (1999). Group decision and social change. In M. Gold
(Ed.), The complete social scientist: A Kurt Lewin reader (pp.
265–284). American Psychological Association.
https://doi.org/10.1037/10319-010 (Original work published
1948)
Parenthetical citation: (Lewin, 1948/1999)
Narrative citation: Lewin (1948/1999)
Works that have been published elsewhere before appearing in an
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 502 ---

anthology are treated as being republished (see Section 9.41) rather
than reprinted.
 47. Entry in a dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia, with group
author
American Psychological Association. (n.d.). Positive
transference. In APA dictionary of psychology. Retrieved
August 31, 2019, from https://dictionary.apa.org/positive-
transference
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.). Self-report. In Merriam-Webster.com
dictionary. Retrieved July 12, 2019, from
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/self-report
Parenthetical citations: (American Psychological
Association, n.d.; Merriam-Webster, n.d.)
Narrative citations: American Psychological Association
(n.d.) and Merriam-Webster (n.d.)
When an online reference work is continuously updated (see
Section 9.15) and the versions are not archived, use “n.d.” as the
year of publication and include a retrieval date (see Section 9.16).
 48. Entry in a dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia, with
individual author
Graham, G. (2019). Behaviorism. In E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The
Stanford encyclopedia of philosophy (Summer 2019 ed.).
Stanford University.
https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2019/entries/behaviori
sm/
Parenthetical citation: (Graham, 2019)
Narrative citation: Graham (2019)
This example is structured similarly to the reference for a chapter in
an edited book because the entry has an individual author, the
encyclopedia has an editor, and the whole work has a publisher.
Because this version of the entry is archived, a retrieval date is not
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 503 ---

needed.
 49. Wikipedia entry
List of oldest companies. (2019, January 13). In Wikipedia.
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?
title=List_of_oldest_companies&oldid=878158136
Parenthetical citation: (“List of Oldest Companies,” 2019)
Narrative citation: “List of Oldest Companies” (2019)
Cite the archived version of the page so that readers can retrieve the
version you used. Access the archived version on Wikipedia by
selecting “View history” and then the time and date of the version
you used. If a wiki does not provide permanent links to archived
versions of the page, include the URL for the entry and the retrieval
date.
10.4 Reports and Gray Literature
There are many kinds of reports, including government
reports, technical reports, and research reports. These
reports, like journal articles, usually cover original
research, but they may or may not be peer reviewed. They
are part of a body of literature sometimes referred to as
gray literature. The category of gray literature includes
press releases, codes of ethics, grants, policy briefs, issue
briefs, and so forth. It is optional—but often helpful—to
describe these less common types of gray literature in
square brackets after the title. Reports themselves
sometimes include a suggested reference format; this
reference usually contains the information necessary to
write an APA Style reference (author, date, title, and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 504 ---

source), but you may need to adjust the order of the
elements and other formatting to conform to APA Style.
When the publisher is the same as the author, which is
often the case for group authors (see Examples 50 and 54),
omit the publisher from the source element. Use the
template shown next to construct references for reports and
gray literature.
Author Date Title
Source
Publisher
information
DOI or URL
Author, A. A., &
Author, B. B.
Name of
Group.
(2020).
(2020,
May 2).
Title of report.
Title of report
(Report No. 123).
Title of gray
literature
[Description].
Publisher
Name.
https://doi.org/xxxx
https://xxxxx
 50. Report by a government agency or other organization
Australian Government Productivity Commission & New Zealand
Productivity Commission. (2012). Strengthening trans-
Tasman economic relations.
https://www.pc.gov.au/inquiries/completed/australia-new-
zealand/report/trans-tasman.pdf
Canada Council for the Arts. (2013). What we heard: Summary
of key findings: 2013 Canada Council’s Inter-Arts Office
consultation.
http://publications.gc.ca/collections/collection_2017/canadac
ouncil/K23-65-2013-eng.pdf
National Cancer Institute. (2018). Facing forward: Life after
cancer treatment (NIH Publication No. 18-2424). U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, National
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 505 ---

Institutes of Health.
https://www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/life-
after-treatment.pdf
Parenthetical citations: (Australian Government
Productivity Commission & New Zealand Productivity
Commission, 2012; Canada Council for the Arts, 2013;
National Cancer Institute, 2018)
Narrative citations: Australian Government Productivity
Commission and New Zealand Productivity Commission
(2012), Canada Council for the Arts (2013), and National
Cancer Institute (2018)
See Section 9.11 for how to treat the names of group authors.
The names of parent agencies not present in the group author name
appear in the source element as the publisher (see Section 9.11).
If multiple agencies authored a report together, join the names with
an ampersand, using commas to separate the names of three or more
agencies.
 51. Report by individual authors at a government agency or
other organization
Fried, D., & Polyakova, A. (2018). Democratic defense against
disinformation. Atlantic Council.
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/images/publications/Democrat
ic_Defense_Against_Disinformation_FINAL.pdf
Segaert, A., & Bauer, A. (2015). The extent and nature of
veteran homelessness in Canada. Employment and Social
Development Canada.
https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-
development/programs/communities/homelessness/publicati
ons-bulletins/veterans-report.html
Parenthetical citations: (Fried & Polyakova, 2018; Segaert
& Bauer, 2015)
Narrative citations: Fried and Polyakova (2018) and
Segaert and Bauer (2015)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 506 ---

 52. Report by individual authors at a government agency,
published as part of a series
Blackwell, D. L., Lucas, J. W., & Clarke, T. C. (2014). Summary
health statistics for U.S. adults: National Health Interview
Survey, 2012 (Vital and Health Statistics Series 10, Issue
260). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/series/sr_10/sr10_260.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Blackwell et al., 2014)
Narrative citation: Blackwell et al. (2014)
 53. Report by a task force, working group, or other group
British Cardiovascular Society Working Group. (2016). British
Cardiovascular Society Working Group report: Out-of-hours
cardiovascular care: Management of cardiac emergencies
and hospital in-patients. British Cardiovascular Society.
http://www.bcs.com/documents/BCSOOHWP_Final_Report_
05092016.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (British Cardiovascular Society
Working Group, 2016)
Narrative citation: British Cardiovascular Society Working
Group (2016)
Capitalize the name of the task force or working group wherever it
appears in the reference because it is a proper noun.
 54. Annual report
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2017). Agency
financial report: Fiscal year 2017.
https://www.sec.gov/files/sec-2017-agency-financial-
report.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 2017)
Narrative citation: U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (2017)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 507 ---

 55. Code of ethics
American Counseling Association. (2014). 2014 ACA code of
ethics. https://www.counseling.org/knowledge-center
American Nurses Association. (2015). Code of ethics for nurses
with interpretive statements.
https://www.nursingworld.org/coe-view-only
American Psychological Association. (2017). Ethical principles
of psychologists and code of conduct (2002, amended
effective June 1, 2010, and January 1, 2017).
https://www.apa.org/ethics/code/index.aspx
Parenthetical citations: (American Counseling Association,
2014; American Nurses Association, 2015; American
Psychological Association, 2017)
Narrative citations: American Counseling Association
(2014), American Nurses Association (2015), and American
Psychological Association (2017)
 56. Grant
Blair, C. B. (Principal Investigator). (2015–2020). Stress, self-
regulation and psycho-pathology in middle childhood (Project
No. 5R01HD081252-04) [Grant]. Eunice Kennedy Shriver
National Institute of Child Health & Human Development.
https://projectreporter.nih.gov/project_info_details.cfm?
aid=9473071&icde=40092311
Parenthetical citation: (Blair, 2015–2020)
Narrative citation: Blair (2015–2020)
List the principal investigator as the author with their role in
parentheses, the project start and end year(s) as the date, the project
title as the title, and the funding agency as the source.
The National Institutes of Health (NIH) refers to grant numbers as
project numbers; use the appropriate terminology for the grant in
your reference, and include the number in parentheses after the title.
A grant application is not a recoverable source and should be
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 508 ---

discussed as part of the methodology but not included in the
reference list.
 57. Issue brief
Lichtenstein, J. (2013). Profile of veteran business owners: More
young veterans appear to be starting businesses (Issue Brief
No. 1). U.S. Small Business Administration, Off-ice of
Advocacy.
https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/Issue%20Brief%201,%
20Veteran%20Business%20Owners.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Lichtenstein, 2013)
Narrative citation: Lichtenstein (2013)
Issue briefs are typically numbered; identify the number of the issue
brief in parentheses after the title.
If a number is not provided, identify the work as an issue brief in
square brackets following the title.
 58. Policy brief
Harwell, M. (2018). Don’t expect too much: The limited
usefulness of common SES measures and a prescription for
change [Policy brief]. National Education Policy Center.
https://nepc.colorado.edu/publication/SES
Parenthetical citation: (Harwell, 2018)
Narrative citation: Harwell (2018)
 59. Press release
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (2019, February 14). FDA
authorizes first interoperable insulin pump intended to allow
patients to customize treatment through their individual
diabetes management devices [Press release].
https://www.fda.gov/NewsEvents/Newsroom/PressAnnounce
ments/ucm631412.htm
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 509 ---

Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
2019)
Narrative citation: U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(2019)
10.5 Conference Sessions and Presentations
Conference sessions and presentations include paper
presentations, poster sessions, keynote addresses, and
symposium contributions. Include a label in square brackets
after the title that matches how the presentation was
described at the conference; include all authors listed as
contributing to the presentation (even if they were not
physically present). The date should match the date(s) of
the full conference to help readers find the source, even
though a session or presentation likely occurred on only
one day. Include the location of the conference to help with
retrieval (see Section 9.31 for the format of locations).
Conference proceedings published in a journal or book
follow the same format as for a journal article (see Example
1), edited book (see Examples 24–26 and 30), or edited
book chapter (see Examples 38–42 and 45).
Use the template shown next to construct references for
conference sessions and presentations.
Author Date Title
Source
Conference
information DOI or URL
Presenter, A.
A., &
(2020,
September
18–20).
Title of
contribution
Conference
Name,
Location.
https://doi.org/xxxx
https://xxxxx
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 510 ---

Presenter, B.
B
(2020,
October 30–
November 1).
[Type of
contribution].
Use the template shown next to construct references for
symposium contributions.
Author Date
Contribution
title
Source
Conference
information DOI or URL
Contributor,
A. A., &
Contributor,
B. B.
(2020,
September
18–20).
(2020,
October
30–
November
1).
Title of
contribution.
In C. C. Chairperson
(Chair), Title of
symposium
[Symposium].
Conference Name,
Location.
https://doi.org/xxxxx
https://xxxxx
 60. Conference session
Fistek, A., Jester, E., & Sonnenberg, K. (2017, July 12–15).
Everybody’s got a little music in them: Using music therapy to
connect, engage, and motivate [Conference session]. Autism
Society National Conference, Milwaukee, WI, United States.
https://asa.confex.com/asa/2017/webprogramarchives/Sessi
on9517.html
Parenthetical citation: (Fistek et al., 2017)
Narrative citation: Fistek et al. (2017)
 61. Paper presentation
Maddox, S., Hurling, J., Stewart, E., & Edwards, A. (2016,
March 30–April 2). If mama ain’t happy, nobody’s happy: The
effect of parental depression on mood dysregulation in
children [Paper presentation]. Southeastern Psychological
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 511 ---

Association 62nd Annual Meeting, New Orleans, LA, United
States.
Parenthetical citation: (Maddox et al., 2016)
Narrative citation: Maddox et al. (2016)
 62. Poster presentation
Pearson, J. (2018, September 27–30). Fat talk and its effects on
state-based body image in women [Poster presentation].
Australian Psychological Society Congress, Sydney, NSW,
Australia. http://bit.ly/2XGSThP
Parenthetical citation: (Pearson, 2018)
Narrative citation: Pearson (2018)
 63. Symposium contribution
De Boer, D., & LaFavor, T. (2018, April 26–29). The art and
significance of successfully identifying resilient individuals: A
person-focused approach. In A. M. Schmidt & A. Kryvanos
(Chairs), Perspectives on resilience: Conceptualization,
measurement, and enhancement [Symposium]. Western
Psychological Association 98th Annual Convention, Portland,
OR, United States.
Parenthetical citation: (De Boer & LaFavor, 2018)
Narrative citation: De Boer and LaFavor (2018)
10.6 Dissertations and Theses
References for doctoral dissertations and master’s and
undergraduate theses are divided by whether they are
unpublished or published; unpublished works generally
must be retrieved directly from the college or university in
print form, whereas published works are available from a
database (e.g., the ProQuest Dissertations and Theses
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 512 ---

Global database), a university archive, or a personal
website. Thus, for unpublished dissertations and theses, the
university name appears in the source element of the
reference, whereas for published dissertations and theses,
the university name appears in square brackets after the
title.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
unpublished dissertations and theses.
Author Date Title Source
Author,
A. A.
(2020). Title of dissertation [Unpublished
doctoral dissertation].
Title of thesis [Unpublished master’s
thesis].
Name of Institution
Awarding the Degree.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
published dissertations and theses.
Author Date Title
Source
Database or
archive
name
URL
Author,
A. A.
(2020). Title of dissertation [Doctoral
dissertation, Name of Institution
Awarding the Degree].
Title of thesis [Master’s thesis, Name
of Institution Awarding the Degree].
Database
Name.
Archive
Name.
https://xxxxx
 64. Unpublished dissertation or thesis
Harris, L. (2014). Instructional leadership perceptions and
practices of elementary school leaders [Unpublished doctoral
dissertation]. University of Virginia.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 513 ---

Parenthetical citation: (Harris, 2014)
Narrative citation: Harris (2014)
 65. Dissertation or thesis from a database
Hollander, M. M. (2017). Resistance to authority: Methodological
innovations and new lessons from the Milgram experiment
(Publication No. 10289373) [Doctoral dissertation, University
of Wisconsin–Madison]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses
Global.
Parenthetical citation: (Hollander, 2017)
Narrative citation: Hollander (2017)
 66. Dissertation or thesis published online (not in a database)
Hutcheson, V. H. (2012). Dealing with dual differences: Social
coping strategies of gifted and lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and queer adolescents [Master’s thesis, The
College of William & Mary]. William & Mary Digital Archive.
https://digitalarchive.wm.edu/bitstream/handle/10288/16594/
HutchesonVirginia2012.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Hutcheson, 2012)
Narrative citation: Hutcheson (2012)
10.7 Reviews
Reviews of books, films, TV shows, albums, and other
entertainment are published in a variety of outlets,
including journals, magazines, newspapers, websites, and
blogs. The reference format for a review should be the
same as the format for the type of content appearing within
that source, with the addition of information about the item
being reviewed in square brackets after the review title.
Within the square brackets, write “Review of the” and then
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 514 ---

the type of work being reviewed (e.g., film, book, TV
series episode, video game); its title (in sentence case,
described in Section 6.17; see also Section 9.19 for whether
to format the title in italics or quotation marks); and its
author or editor, director, writer, and so forth, with a
designation of role for all except regular authors of books.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
reviews.
Author Date
Title Source
Review
title
Details of
reviewed work
Periodical
information DOI or URL
Reviewer,
A. A.
(2020).
(2020,
February
3).
Title of
review
[Review of the
book Book title,
by A. A.
Author].
[Review of the
book Book title,
by E. E. Editor,
Ed.].
[Review of the
film Film title,
by D. D.
Director, Dir.].
[Review of the
TV series
episode
“Episode
title,” by W.
W. Writer,
Writer, & D. D.
Director, Dir.].
Periodical
Title, 34(2),
14–15.
Blog Title.
https://doi.org/xxxxx
https://xxxxxx
 67. Film review published in a journal
Mirabito, L. A., & Heck, N. C. (2016). Bringing LGBTQ youth
theater into the spotlight [Review of the film The year we
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 515 ---

thought about love, by E. Brodsky, Dir.]. Psychology of
Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity, 3(4), 499–500.
https://doi.org/10.1037/sgd0000205
Parenthetical citation: (Mirabito & Heck, 2016)
Narrative citation: Mirabito and Heck (2016)
 68. Book review published in a newspaper
Santos, F. (2019, January 11). Reframing refugee children’s
stories [Review of the book We are displaced: My journey
and stories from refugee girls around the world, by M.
Yousafzai]. The New York Times. https://nyti.ms/2HIgjk3
Parenthetical citation: (Santos, 2019)
Narrative citation: Santos (2019)
 69. TV series episode review published on a website
Perkins, D. (2018, February 1). The good place ends its
remarkable second season with irrational hope, unexpected
gifts, and a smile [Review of the TV series episode
“Somewhere else,” by M. Schur, Writer & Dir.]. A.V. Club.
https://www.avclub.com/the-good-place-ends-its-remarkable-
second-season-with-i-1822649316
Parenthetical citation: (Perkins, 2018)
Narrative citation: Perkins (2018)
The title is italicized because this work is a webpage on a website
(see Example 112). In the reference, the title of the show appears in
reverse italics (see Section 6.23) and sentence case.
10.8 Unpublished Works and Informally Published
Works
Unpublished works include work that is in progress, has
been completed but not yet submitted for publication, and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 516 ---

has been submitted but not yet accepted for publication.
Informally published works include work that is available
from a preprint archive or repository such as PsyArXiv, an
electronic archive such as ERIC, an institutional archive, a
government archive, a personal website, and so forth. Refer
to the final published version of your sources when
possible (see Section 8.5); remember to update your
references prior to publication of your work or submission
for a classroom assignment to ensure they contain the most
up-to-date publication information.
For an unpublished or informally published work, the
date should be the year the work was completed or the year
the draft was written. Do not use the words “in
preparation,” “submitted,” or “submitted for publication” in
the date element of the reference. After the title, describe
the status of the work (e.g., unpublished, in preparation,
submitted for publication) using the appropriate descriptor
for the work (e.g., manuscript, report) in square brackets.
When the source of the unpublished work is known (e.g., a
university or university department), include it in the
source element of the reference. Include a DOI or URL
when available for informally published works.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
unpublished works.
Author Date Title
Source
University
information
URL
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 517 ---

Author, A. A.,
& Author, B.
B.
(2020). Title of the work
[Unpublished
manuscript].
Title of work [Manuscript
in preparation].
Title of work [Manuscript
submitted for
publication].
Department
Name, University
Name.
https://xxxxx
Use the template shown next to construct references for
informally published works.
Author Date Title
Source
Database or
archive
information
DOI or URL
Author, A. A.,
& Author B.
B.
(2020). Title of the work.
Title of the work
(Publication No.
123).
Name of
Database.
Name of Archive.
https://doi.org/xxxxx
https://xxxxxx
 70. Unpublished manuscript
Yoo, J., Miyamoto, Y., Rigotti, A., & Ryff, C. (2016). Linking
positive affect to blood lipids: A cultural perspective
[Unpublished manuscript]. Department of Psychology,
University of Wisconsin–Madison.
Parenthetical citation: (Yoo et al., 2016)
Narrative citation: Yoo et al. (2016)
An unpublished manuscript is only in the authors’ possession. Treat
a manuscript available online as informally published (see
Examples 73–74).
Include the department and institution where the work was
produced, if possible.
 71. Manuscript in preparation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 518 ---

O’Shea, M. (2018). Understanding proactive behavior in the
workplace as a function of gender [Manuscript in
preparation]. Department of Management, University of
Kansas.
Parenthetical citation: (O’Shea, 2018)
Narrative citation: O’Shea (2018)
A manuscript in preparation is only in the authors’ possession.
Treat a manuscript available online as informally published (see
Examples 73–74).
Include the department and institution where the work was
produced, if possible.
 72. Manuscript submitted for publication
Lippincott, T., & Poindexter, E. K. (2019). Emotion recognition
as a function of facial cues: Implications for practice
[Manuscript submitted for publication]. Department of
Psychology, University of Washington.
Parenthetical citation: (Lippincott & Poindexter, 2019)
Narrative citation: Lippincott and Poindexter (2019)
Do not list the name of the journal to which the work was
submitted. Once the manuscript has been accepted for publication,
cite it as an in-press article (see Example 8).
A manuscript submitted for publication is not available to the
public. If the manuscript is available online, treat it as informally
published (see Examples 73–74).
 73. Informally published work, from a preprint archive or an
institutional repository
Leuker, C., Samartzidis, L., Hertwig, R., & Pleskac, T. J. (2018).
When money talks: Judging risk and coercion in high-paying
clinical trials. PsyArXiv.
https://doi.org/10.17605/OSF.IO/9P7CB
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 519 ---

Stults-Kolehmainen, M. A., & Sinha, R. (2015). The effects of
stress on physical activity and exercise. PubMed Central.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3894304
Parenthetical citations: (Leuker et al., 2018; Stults-
Kolehmainen & Sinha, 2015)
Narrative citations: Leuker et al. (2018) and Stults-
Kolehmainen and Sinha (2015)
The informally published work may not be peer reviewed (as with
Leuker et al.’s preprint article from PsyArXiv), or it may be the
author’s final, peer-reviewed manuscript as accepted for publication
(as with Stults-Kolehmainen & Sinha’s manuscript from PubMed
Central). See Section 8.5 for more on use of an archival version.
 74. Informally published work, from ERIC database
Ho, H.-K. (2014). Teacher preparation for early childhood
special education in Taiwan (ED545393). ERIC.
https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED545393.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Ho, 2014)
Narrative citation: Ho (2014)
ERIC assigns document numbers to the works in the database.
Include this number in parentheses after the title of the work.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 520 ---

Data Sets, Software, and Tests
10.9 Data Sets
Citing data supports their discovery and reuse, leading to
better science through the validation of results. It also
recognizes data as an essential part of the scientific record
and acknowledges data creators for their contributions. We
recommend that authors include an in-text citation and a
reference list entry for a data set when they have either (a)
conducted secondary analyses of publicly archived data or
(b) archived their own data being presented for the first
time in the current work (see also Section 1.14 on data
retention and sharing).
The date for published data is the year of publication and
for unpublished data is the year(s) of collection. When a
version number exists, include it in parentheses after the
title. The bracketed description is flexible (e.g., data set,
data set and code book). In the source element of the
reference, for published data, provide the name of the
organization that has published, archived, produced, or
distributed the data set; for unpublished data, provide the
source (e.g., a university), if known. Include a retrieval date
only if the data set is designed to change over time (e.g., if
data are still undergoing collection; see Section 9.16 for
more on retrieval dates). Use the template shown next to
construct references for data sets.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 521 ---

Author Date Title
Source
Publisher DOI or URL
Author, A.
A., & Author,
B. B.
Name of
Group.
(2020).
(2015–
2019).
Title of data set (Version
1.2) [Data set].
Title of data set
[Unpublished raw data].
[Description of untitled
data set] [Unpublished
raw data].
Publisher
Name.
Source of
Unpublished
Data.
https://doi.org/xxxxx
https://xxxxxx
Retrieved October
21, 2020, from
https://xxxxx
 75. Data set
D’Souza, A., & Wiseheart, M. (2018). Cognitive effects of music
and dance training in children (ICPSR 37080; Version V1)
[Data set]. ICPSR. https://doi.org/10.3886/ICPSR37080.v1
National Center for Education Statistics. (2016). Fast Response
Survey System (FRSS): Teachers’ use of educational
technology in U.S. public schools, 2009 (ICPSR 35531;
Version V3) [Data set and code book]. National Archive of
Data on Arts and Culture.
https://doi.org/10.3886/ICPSR35531.v3
Pew Research Center. (2018). American trends panel Wave 26
[Data set].
https://www.pewsocialtrends.org/dataset/american-trends-
panel-wave-26/
Parenthetical citations: (D’Souza & Wiseheart, 2018;
National Center for Education Statistics, 2016; Pew
Research Center, 2018)
Narrative citations: D’Souza and Wiseheart (2018),
National Center for Education Statistics (2016), and Pew
Research Center (2018)
 76. Unpublished raw data
Baer, R. A. (2015). [Unpublished raw data on the correlations
between the Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire and the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 522 ---

Kentucky Inventory of Mindfulness Skills]. University of
Kentucky.
Oregon Youth Authority. (2011). Recidivism outcomes
[Unpublished raw data].
Parenthetical citations: (Baer, 2015; Oregon Youth
Authority, 2011)
Narrative citations: Baer (2015) and Oregon Youth
Authority (2011)
For an untitled data set, provide a description in square brackets of
the publication status and focus of the data.
When the source of unpublished raw data is known (e.g., a
university or a university department), include it at the end of the
reference.
10.10 Computer Software, Mobile Apps,
Apparatuses, and Equipment
Common software and mobile apps mentioned in text, but
not paraphrased or quoted, do not need citations, nor do
programming languages. “Common” is relative to your
field and audience—examples of software or apps that do
not require citations include Microsoft Office (e.g., Word,
Excel, PowerPoint), social media apps (e.g., Facebook,
Instagram, Twitter), survey software (e.g., Qualtrics,
Survey Monkey), Adobe products (e.g., Adobe Reader,
Photoshop, Adobe Acrobat), Java, and statistical programs
(e.g., R, SPSS, SAS). If you used common software or
mobile apps during your research, simply give the proper
name of the software or app along the with version number
in the text, if relevant.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 523 ---

Data were analyzed with IBM SPSS Statistics (Version 25).
Clients had installed the Facebook app on their mobile
devices.
However, include reference list entries and in-text citations
if you have paraphrased or quoted from any software or
app. Also provide reference list entries and in-text citations
when mentioning software, apps, and apparatuses or
equipment of limited distribution—meaning your audience
is unlikely to be familiar with them. The date of a computer
software or mobile app reference is the year of publication
of the version used. The titles of software and apps should
be italicized in the reference list entry but not italicized in
the text. To cite content on a social media app, see Section
10.15. Use the template shown next to construct references
for software and mobile apps of limited distribution and for
apparatuses or equipment.
Author Date Title
Source
Publisher URL
Author, A. A., &
Author, B. B.
Name of Group.
(2020). Title of work (Version 1.2)
[Computer software].
Title of work (Version 4.6)
[Mobile app].
Name of apparatus (Model
number) [Apparatus].
Name of equipment (Model
number) [Equipment].
Publisher.
App Store.
Google
Play Store.
https://xxxxxx
Use the template shown next to construct references for
entries in mobile app reference works. The format for an
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 524 ---

entry in a mobile app reference work is similar to that for a
chapter in an edited book. The most common case, in
which the same author is responsible for the whole work
and all entries, is shown here.
Author Date
Entry
title
Source
Mobile app information URL
Author, A. A.,
& Author, B. B.
Name of
Group.
(2020). Title
of
entry.
In Title of work (Version 1.2) [Mobile
app]. Publisher Name or App Store.
https://xxxxxx
 77. Software
Borenstein, M., Hedges, L., Higgins, J., & Rothstein, H. (2014).
Comprehensive meta-analysis (Version 3.3.070) [Computer
software]. Biostat. https://www.meta-analysis.com/
Parenthetical citation: (Borenstein et al., 2014)
Narrative citation: Borenstein et al. (2014)
 78. Apparatus or equipment
SR Research. (2016). Eyelink 1000 plus [Apparatus and
software]. https://www.sr-research.com/eyelink1000plus.html
Tactile Labs. (2015). Latero tactile display [Apparatus].
http://tactilelabs.com/products/haptics/latero-tactile-display/
Parenthetical citations: (SR Research, 2016; Tactile Labs,
2015)
Narrative citations: SR Research (2016) and Tactile Labs
(2015)
If the apparatus or equipment comes with software, list both in the
description.
If the apparatus or equipment has a model number that is not
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 525 ---

included in the title, include the number after the title in
parentheses.
Because the author and publisher are the same, omit the publisher.
 79. Mobile app
Epocrates. (2019). Epocrates medical references (Version
18.12) [Mobile app]. App Store.
https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/epocrates/id281935788?
mt=8
Parenthetical citation: (Epocrates, 2019)
Narrative citation: Epocrates (2019)
 80. Entry in a mobile app reference work
Epocrates. (2019). Interaction check: Aspirin + sertraline. In
Epocrates medical references (Version 18.12) [Mobile app].
Google Play Store.
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?
id=com.epocrates&hl=en_US
Parenthetical citation: (Epocrates, 2019)
Narrative citation: Epocrates (2019)
10.11 Tests, Scales, and Inventories
To cite a test, scale, or inventory, provide a citation for its
supporting literature (e.g., its manual, which may be an
authored or an edited book, or the journal article in which it
was published; see Example 81). If supporting literature is
not available, it is also possible to cite the test itself (see
Example 82) and/or a database record for a test (see
Example 83). The title of a test, a scale, or an inventory
should be capitalized using title case whenever it appears in
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 526 ---

a paper. Although the test title may be italicized in a
reference (e.g., in the name of a manual or when the test
itself is cited), in the text, the title of a test should appear in
title case in standard (nonitalic) type. A test database name
(e.g., PsycTESTS, ETS TestLink) is included only for test
database records (see Example 83). Use the template shown
next to construct references for tests, scales, inventories, or
test database records.
Author Date Title
Source
Database DOI or URL
Author, A. A.,
& Author, B.
B.
(2020). Title of the Test.
Title of the Test
Database Record
[Database record].
Test
Database
Name.
https://doi.org/xxxxx
https://xxxxxx
 81. Manual for a test, scale, or inventory
Tellegen, A., & Ben-Porath, Y. S. (2011). Minnesota Multiphasic
Personality Inventory–2 Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF):
Technical manual. Pearson.
Parenthetical citation: (Tellegen & Ben-Porath, 2011)
Narrative citation: Tellegen and Ben-Porath (2011)
 82. Test, scale, or inventory itself
Project Implicit. (n.d.). Gender–Science IAT.
https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/takeatest.html
Parenthetical citation: (Project Implicit, n.d.)
Narrative citation: Project Implicit (n.d.)
Cite the test, scale, or inventory itself only if a manual or other
supporting literature is not available to cite; if a manual is available
for a test, cite the manual, not the test (see Example 81).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 527 ---

 83. Database record for a test
Alonso-Tapia, J., Nieto, C., Merino-Tejedor, E., Huertas, J. A., &
Ruiz, M. (2018). Situated Goals Questionnaire for University
Students (SGQ-U, CMS-U) [Database record]. PsycTESTS.
https://doi.org/10.1037/t66267-000
Cardoza, D., Morris, J. K., Myers, H. F., & Rodriguez, N. (2000).
Acculturative Stress Inventory (ASI) (TC022704) [Database
record]. ETS TestLink.
Parenthetical citations: (Alonso-Tapia et al., 2018; Cardoza
et al., 2000)
Narrative citations: Alonso-Tapia et al. (2018) and Cardoza
et al. (2000)
Test database records (e.g., records from PsycTESTS, the ETS
TestLink collection, or the CINAHL database) typically provide
unique descriptive and administrative information about tests; cite
the database record if you use this unique information. Otherwise,
cite the test’s supporting literature, if available.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 528 ---

Audiovisual Media
Audiovisual media may have both visual and audio
components (e.g., films, TV shows, YouTube videos; see
Section 10.12), audio components only (e.g., music, speech
recordings; see Section 10.13), or visual components only
(e.g., artwork, PowerPoint slides, photographs; see Section
10.14). The reference examples that follow are divided into
those categories as an aid to readers of this manual;
however, they follow the same formats, so the guidance is
presented together here.
The formats for audiovisual references follow a pattern
based on whether the work stands alone (e.g., films, whole
TV series, podcasts, webinars, music albums, artwork,
YouTube videos) or is part of a greater whole (e.g., TV
series episodes, podcast episodes, songs from a music
album).
The author of an audiovisual work is determined by
media type, as shown next.
Media type Include as the author
Film Director
TV series Executive producer(s)
TV series episode Writer and director of episode
Podcast Host or executive producer
Podcast episode Host of episode
Webinar Instructor
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 529 ---

Classical music album or song Composer
Modern music album or song Recording artist
Artwork Artist
Online streaming video Person or group who uploaded the video
Photograph Photographer
Describe the audiovisual work in square brackets—for
example, “[Film],” “[TV series],” “[Audio podcast
episode],” “[Song],” “[Painting],” and so forth in the title
element of the reference. In the source element of the
reference, provide the name of the production company for
films, TV series, or podcasts; the label for music albums;
the museum name and location for artwork; or the name of
the streaming video site that hosts a streaming video. To
cite a direct quotation from an audiovisual work (e.g., from
a film), see Section 8.28; for interviews, see Section 8.7. If
you want to reproduce an audiovisual work (e.g., a
photograph or clip art) rather than just cite it, you may need
to seek permission from the copyright owner and/or
provide a copyright attribution per the terms of the image
license (see Section 12.15 for more).
Use the template shown next to construct references for
audiovisual media that stand alone.
Author Date Title
Source
Publisher URL
Director, D. D.
(Director).
Producer, P. P.
(Executive
(2020).
(1989–
present).
Title of work
[Description].
Production
Company.
Label.
https://xxxxxx
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 530 ---

Producer).
Host, H. H. (Host).
Artist, A. A.
Uploader, U. U.
(2013–
2019).
(2019,
July 21).
Museum Name,
Museum Location.
Department Name,
University Name.
Use the template shown next to construct references for
audiovisual media that are part of a greater whole.
Author Date Title
Source
Publisher URL
Writer, W. W.
(Writer), &
Director, D. D.
(Director).
Host, H. H.
(Host).
Producer, P. P.
(Producer).
Composer, C.
C.
Artist, A. A.
(2020).
(2020,
March
26).
Title of episode
(Season No.,
Episode No.)
[Description].
Title of song
[Description].
In P. P. Producer
(Executive Producer),
Title of TV series.
Production Company.
In Title of podcast.
Production Company.
On Title of album.
Label.
https://xxxxxx
10.12 Audiovisual Works
 84. Film or video
Forman, M. (Director). (1975). One flew over the cuckoo’s nest
[Film]. United Artists.
Fosha, D. (Guest Expert), & Levenson, H. (Host). (2017).
Accelerated experiential dynamic psychotherapy (AEDP)
supervision [Film; educational DVD]. American Psychological
Association. https://www.apa.org/pubs/videos/4310958.aspx
Jackson, P. (Director). (2001). The lord of the rings: The
fellowship of the ring [Film; four-disc special extended ed. on
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 531 ---

DVD]. WingNut Films; The Saul Zaentz Company.
Parenthetical citations: (Forman, 1975; Fosha & Levenson,
2017; Jackson, 2001)
Narrative citations: Forman (1975), Fosha and Levenson
(2017), and Jackson (2001)
The director should be credited as the author of a film. However, if
the director is unknown (as with the Fosha & Levenson example),
someone in a similar role can be credited instead to aid readers in
retrieving the work; the description of role in this case matches
what is on the work and is flexible.
It is not necessary to specify how you watched a film (e.g., in a
theater, on DVD, streaming online). However, the format or other
descriptive information may be included—within the square
brackets, following the word “Film” and a semi-colon—when you
need to specify the version used (e.g., when the film’s DVD release
includes a commentary or special feature that you used, or when the
film is a limited-release educational video or DVD). Adjust this
wording as needed.
 85. Film or video in another language
Malle, L. (Director). (1987). Au revoir les enfants [Goodbye
children] [Film]. Nouvelles Éditions de Films.
Parenthetical citation: (Malle, 1987)
Narrative citation: Malle (1987)
When a film title is in a different language than your paper, include
a translation of the title in square brackets (see Section 9.38).
 86. TV series
Simon, D., Colesberry, R. F., & Kostroff Noble, N. (Executive
Producers). (2002–2008). The wire [TV series]. Blown
Deadline Productions; HBO.
Parenthetical citation: (Simon et al., 2002–2008)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 532 ---

Narrative citation: Simon et al. (2002–2008)
When the series spans multiple years, separate the years with an en
dash. If the series is still airing, replace the second year with the
word “present”: (2015–present).
 87. TV series episode or webisode
Barris, K. (Writer & Director). (2017, January 11). Lemons
(Season 3, Episode 12) [TV series episode]. In K. Barris, J.
Groff, A. Anderson, E. B. Dobbins, L. Fishburne, & H.
Sugland (Executive Producers), Black-ish. Wilmore Films;
Artists First; Cinema Gypsy Productions; ABC Studios.
Oakley, B. (Writer), Weinstein, J. (Writer), & Lynch, J. (Director).
(1995, May 21). Who shot Mr. Burns? (Part one) (Season 6,
Episode 25) [TV series episode]. In D. Mirkin, J. L. Brooks,
M. Groening, & S. Simon (Executive Producers), The
Simpsons. Gracie Films; Twentieth Century Fox Film
Corporation.
Parenthetical citations: (Barris, 2017; Oakley et al., 1995)
Narrative citations: Barris (2017) and Oakley et al. (1995)
Include writer(s) and the director for the episode. Include the
contributor roles in parentheses after each contributor’s name.
“Writer” and “Director” are shown here, but “Executive Director”
or other role descriptions might also be used.
Provide the season number and episode number after the title in
parentheses.
 88. TED Talk
Giertz, S. (2018, April). Why you should make useless things
[Video]. TED Conferences.
https://www.ted.com/talks/simone_giertz_why_you_should_
make_useless_things
TED. (2012, March 16). Brené Brown: Listening to shame
[Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 533 ---

v=psN1DORYYV0
Parenthetical citations: (Giertz, 2018; TED, 2012)
Narrative citations: Giertz (2018) and TED (2012)
When the TED Talk comes from TED’s website (as with the Giertz
example), use the name of the speaker as the author. When the TED
Talk is on YouTube, list the owner of the YouTube account (here,
TED) as the author to aid in retrieval.
When the speaker is not listed as the author, integrate their name
into the narrative if desired: “Brown discussed shame as a human
experience (TED, 2012).”
To cite a quotation from a TED Talk, see Section 8.28.
 89. Webinar, recorded
Goldberg, J. F. (2018). Evaluating adverse drug effects
[Webinar]. American Psychiatric Association.
https://education.psychiatry.org/Users/ProductDetails.aspx?
ActivityID=6172
Parenthetical citation: (Goldberg, 2018)
Narrative citation: Goldberg (2018)
Use this format only for recorded, retrievable webinars.
Cite unrecorded webinars as personal communications (see Section
8.9).
 90. YouTube video or other streaming video
Cutts, S. (2017, November 24). Happiness [Video]. Vimeo.
https://vimeo.com/244405542
Fogarty, M. [Grammar Girl]. (2016, September 30). How to
diagram a sentence (absolute basics) [Video]. YouTube.
https://youtu.be/deiEY5Yq1qI
University of Oxford. (2018, December 6). How do geckos walk
on water? [Video]. YouTube.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qm1xGfOZJc8
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 534 ---

Parenthetical citations: (Cutts, 2017; Fogarty, 2016;
University of Oxford, 2018)
Narrative citations: Cutts (2017), Fogarty (2016), and
University of Oxford (2018)
The person or group who uploaded the video is credited as the
author for retrievability, even if they did not create the work. Note
the contributions of others who appear in the video in the text
narrative if desired (see Example 88).
See Section 9.8 for how to present usernames. To cite a quotation
from a YouTube or other streaming video, see Section 8.28.
10.13 Audio Works
See the introduction to the Audiovisual Media section for
templates for audio works.
 91. Music album
Bach, J. S. (2010). The Brandenburg concertos: Concertos
BWV 1043 & 1060 [Album recorded by Academy of St Martin
in the Fields]. Decca. (Original work published 1721)
Bowie, D. (2016). Blackstar [Album]. Columbia.
Parenthetical citations: (Bach, 1721/2010; Bowie, 2016)
Narrative citations: Bach (1721/2010) and Bowie (2016)
For a recording of a classical work, provide the composer as the
author, and note (in square brackets) following the title the
individual or group who recorded the version you used. Provide the
publication date for the version you used, and then provide the year
of original composition in parentheses at the end of the reference.
For all other recordings, provide the name of the recording artist or
group as the author.
It is not usually necessary to specify how you listened to an album
(e.g., streaming on Spotify, iTunes, Amazon Music, Pandora, Tidal;
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 535 ---

on CD). However, the format or other descriptive information may
be included—in square brackets, following the word “Album” and a
semicolon—when you need to specify the version you used (e.g.,
when a version of an album includes special tracks or features you
accessed). Adjust this wording as needed.
Include a URL in the reference if that location is the only means of
retrieval (e.g., for artists who provide music in only one location,
such as SoundCloud or their website).
 92. Single song or track
Beethoven, L. van. (2012). Symphony No. 3 in E-flat major
[Song recorded by Staatskapelle Dresden]. On Beethoven:
Complete symphonies. Brilliant Classics. (Original work
published 1804)
Beyoncé. (2016). Formation [Song]. On Lemonade. Parkwood;
Columbia.
Childish Gambino. (2018). This is America [Song]. mcDJ; RCA.
Lamar, K. (2017). Humble [Song]. On Damn. Aftermath
Entertainment; Interscope Records; Top Dawg
Entertainment.
Parenthetical citations: (Beethoven, 1804/2012; Beyoncé,
2016; Childish Gambino, 2018; Lamar, 2017)
Narrative citations: Beethoven (1804/2012), Beyoncé
(2016), Childish Gambino (2018), and Lamar (2017)
If the song has no associated album (as in the Childish Gambino
example), omit that part of the reference.
Include a URL in the reference if that location is the only means of
retrieval (e.g., for artists who provide music in only one location,
such as SoundCloud or on their website).
 93. Podcast
Vedantam, S. (Host). (2015–present). Hidden brain [Audio
podcast]. NPR.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 536 ---

https://www.npr.org/series/423302056/hidden-brain
Parenthetical citation: (Vedantam, 2015–present)
Narrative citation: Vedantam (2015–present)
List the host of the podcast as the author. Alternatively, provide the
executive producers, if known. In either case, include their role in
parentheses.
Specify the type of podcast (audio or video) in square brackets.
If the URL of the podcast is unknown (e.g., if accessed via an app),
omit the URL.
 94. Podcast episode
Glass, I. (Host). (2011, August 12). Amusement park (No. 443)
[Audio podcast episode]. In This American life. WBEZ
Chicago. https://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-
archives/episode/443/amusement-park
Parenthetical citation: (Glass, 2011)
Narrative citation: Glass (2011)
List the host of the podcast as the author and include their role in
parentheses.
Provide the episode number after the title in parentheses. If the
podcast does not number episodes, omit the number from the
reference.
Specify the type of podcast (audio or video) in square brackets.
If the URL of the podcast is unknown (e.g., if accessed via an app),
omit the URL.
 95. Radio interview recording in a digital archive
de Beauvoir, S. (1960, May 4). Simone de Beauvoir discusses
the art of writing [Interview]. Studs Terkel Radio Archive; The
Chicago History Museum.
https://studsterkel.wfmt.com/programs/simone-de-beauvoir-
discusses-art-writing
Parenthetical citation: (de Beauvoir, 1960)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 537 ---

Narrative citation: de Beauvoir (1960)
For interviews that are housed in digital or physical archives
(whether in audio or audiovisual form), credit the interviewee as the
author. For more on interviews, see Section 8.7.
 96. Speech audio recording
King, M. L., Jr. (1963, August 28). I have a dream [Speech audio
recording]. American Rhetoric.
https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/mlkihaveadrea
m.htm
Parenthetical citation: (King, 1963)
Narrative citation: King (1963)
10.14 Visual Works
See the introduction to the Audiovisual Media section for
templates for visual works.
 97. Artwork in a museum or on a museum website
Delacroix, E. (1826–1827). Faust attempts to seduce Marguerite
[Lithograph]. The Louvre, Paris, France.
Wood, G. (1930). American gothic [Painting]. Art Institute of
Chicago, Chicago, IL, United States.
https://www.artic.edu/aic/collections/artwork/6565
Parenthetical citations: (Delacroix, 1826–1827; Wood,
1930)
Narrative citations: Delacroix (1826–1827) and Wood
(1930)
Use this format to cite all types of museum artwork, including
paintings, sculptures, photographs, prints, drawings, and
installations; always include a description of the medium or format
in square brackets after the title.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 538 ---

For untitled art, include a description in square brackets in place of
a title.
 98. Clip art or stock image
GDJ. (2018). Neural network deep learning prismatic [Clip art].
Openclipart. https://openclipart.org/detail/309343/neural-
network-deep-learning-prismatic
Parenthetical citation: (GDJ, 2018)
Narrative citation: GDJ (2018)
Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) most clip art or stock
images. To reproduce clip art or stock images, permission and/or a
copyright attribution may be necessary in addition to the reference.
No citation, permission, or copyright attribution is necessary for
clip art from programs like Microsoft Word or PowerPoint (see
Section 12.15).
 99. Infographic
Rossman, J., & Palmer, R. (2015). Sorting through our space
junk [Infographic]. World Science Festival.
https://www.worldsciencefestival.com/2015/11/space-junk-
infographic/
Parenthetical citation: (Rossman & Palmer, 2015)
Narrative citation: Rossman and Palmer (2015)
Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) an infographic. To
reproduce an infographic, permission and/or a copyright attribution
may be necessary in addition to the reference (see Section 12.15).
100. Map
Cable, D. (2013). The racial dot map [Map]. University of
Virginia, Weldon Cooper Center for Public Service.
https://demographics.coopercenter.org/Racial-Dot-Map
Google. (n.d.). [Google Maps directions for driving from La Paz,
Bolivia, to Lima, Peru]. Retrieved February 16, 2020, from
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 539 ---

https://goo.gl/YYE3GR
Parenthetical citations: (Cable, 2013; Google, n.d.)
Narrative citations: Cable (2013) and Google (n.d.)
Because dynamically created maps (e.g., Google Maps) do not have
a title, describe the map in square brackets, and include a retrieval
date.
101. Photograph
McCurry, S. (1985). Afghan girl [Photograph]. National
Geographic.
https://www.nationalgeographic.com/magazine/national-
geographic-magazine-50-years-of-covers/#/ngm-1985-jun-
714.jpg
Rinaldi, J. (2016). [Photograph series of a boy who finds his
footing after abuse by those he trusted]. The Pulitzer Prizes.
https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/jessica-rinaldi
Parenthetical citations: (McCurry, 1985; Rinaldi, 2016)
Narrative citations: McCurry (1985) and Rinaldi (2016)
Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) photographs or other
artwork not connected to a museum (for museum artwork, see
Example 97). To reproduce a photograph, permission and/or a
copyright attribution may be necessary in addition to the reference
(see Section 12.15).
The source is the name of the site from which the photograph was
retrieved.
For an untitled photograph, include a description in square brackets
in place of a title.
102. PowerPoint slides or lecture notes
Canan, E., & Vasilev, J. (2019, May 22). [Lecture notes on
resource allocation]. Department of Management Control and
Information Systems, University of Chile.
https://uchilefau.academia.edu/ElseZCanan
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 540 ---

Housand, B. (2016). Game on! Integrating games and
simulations in the classroom [PowerPoint slides]. SlideShare.
https://www.slideshare.net/brianhousand/game-on-iagc-
2016/
Mack, R., & Spake, G. (2018). Citing open source images and
formatting references for presentations [PowerPoint slides].
Canvas@FNU. https://fnu.onelogin.com/login
Parenthetical citations: (Canan & Vasilev, 2019; Housand,
2016; Mack & Spake, 2018)
Narrative citations: Canan and Vasilev (2019), Housand
(2016), and Mack and Spake (2018)
If the slides come from a classroom website, learning management
system (e.g., Canvas, Blackboard), or company intranet and you are
writing for an audience with access to that resource, provide the
name of the site and its URL (use the login page URL for sites
requiring login; see Section 8.8).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 541 ---

Online Media
10.15 Social Media
Cite only original content from social media sites such as
Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, Instagram, Tumblr, LinkedIn,
and so forth. That is, if you used social media to discover
content (e.g., you found a link to a blog post on Pinterest or
Twitter) and you want to cite the content, cite it directly—it
is not necessary to mention that you found it through a link
on social media.
Social media posts may contain text only, text with
audiovisuals (e.g., photos, videos), or audiovisuals alone.
Include the text of a social media post up to the first 20
words. Note the presence of audiovisuals (in square
brackets) after the text of the post (see Example 105).
Social media posts might also contain nonstandard
spelling and capitalization, hashtags, links, and emojis. Do
not alter the spelling and capitalization in a social media
reference. Retain hashtags and links. Replicate emojis, if
possible. If you are not able to create the emoji, provide the
emoji’s name in square brackets, for example, “[face with
tears of joy emoji]” for ᄊ. The full list of emoji names
can be found on the Unicode Consortium’s website
(http://unicode.org/emoji/charts/index.html). When
calculating the number of words in your paper, count an
emoji as one word.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 542 ---

Use the template shown next to construct references to
social media content.
Author Date Title
Source
Social
media
site
name
URL
Twitter and
Instagram:
Author, A. A.
[@username].
Name of
Group
[@username].
Facebook
and others:
Author, A. A.
Name of
Group.
Name of
Group
[Username].
Username.
(n.d.).
(2019,
August
8).
Content of the post up to the
first 20 words.
Content of the post up to the
first 20 words [Description of
audiovisuals].
[Description of audiovisuals].
Site
Name.
https://xxxxxx
Retrieved August
27, 2020, from
https://xxxxxx
103. Tweet
APA Education [@APAEducation]. (2018, June 29). College
students are forming mental-health clubs—and they’re
making a difference @washingtonpost [Thumbnail with link
attached] [Tweet]. Twitter.
https://twitter.com/apaeducation/status/10128104905301401
61
Badlands National Park [@BadlandsNPS]. (2018, February 26).
Biologists have identified more than 400 different plant
species growing in @BadlandsNPS #DYK #biodiversity
[Tweet]. Twitter.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 543 ---

https://twitter.com/BadlandsNPS/status/96819650041213337
9
White, B. [@BettyMWhite]. (2018, June 21). I treasure every
minute we spent together #koko [Image attached] [Tweet].
Twitter.
https://twitter.com/BettyMWhite/status/100995189284622745
6
Parenthetical citations: (APA Education, 2018; Badlands
National Park, 2018; White, 2018)
Narrative citations: APA Education (2018), Badlands
National Park (2018), and White (2018)
If the tweet includes images (including animated gifs), videos,
thumbnail links to outside sources, links to other tweets (as in a
retweet with comment), or a poll, indicate that in square brackets.
For tweet replies, do not include the “replying to” information; if
that is important to note, do so within the in-text citation.
Replicate emojis if possible (see the introduction to Section 10.15
for more).
104. Twitter profile
APA Style [@APA_Style]. (n.d.). Tweets [Twitter profile]. Twitter.
Retrieved November 1, 2019, from
https://twitter.com/APA_Style
Parenthetical citation: (APA Style, n.d.)
Narrative citation: APA Style (n.d.)
Provide a retrieval date because the contents of the page can change
over time.
A Twitter profile has several tabs (“Tweets” is the default). To
create a reference to one of the other tabs (e.g., “Lists” or
“Moments”), substitute that tab name for “Tweets” in the reference.
Include the notation “Twitter profile” in square brackets.
105. Facebook post
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 544 ---

Gaiman, N. (2018, March 22). 100,000+ Rohingya refugees
could be at serious risk during Bangladesh’s monsoon
season. My fellow UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador Cate
Blanchett is [Image attached] [Status update]. Facebook.
http://bit.ly/2JQxPAD
National Institute of Mental Health. (2018, November 28).
Suicide affects all ages, genders, races, and ethnicities.
Check out these 5 Action Steps for Helping Someone in
Emotional Pain [Infographic]. Facebook. http://bit.ly/321Qstq
News From Science. (2018, June 26). These frogs walk instead
of hop: https://scim.ag/2KlriwH [Video]. Facebook.
https://www.facebook.com/ScienceNOW/videos/1015550858
7605108/
Parenthetical citations: (Gaiman, 2018; National Institute of
Mental Health, 2018; News From Science, 2018)
Narrative citations: Gaiman (2018), National Institute of
Mental Health (2018), and News From Science (2018)
This format can be used for posts to other social media services,
including Tumblr, LinkedIn, and so forth.
If a status update includes images, videos, thumbnail links to
outside sources, or content from another Facebook post (such as
when sharing a link), indicate that in square brackets.
Replicate emojis if possible (see the introduction to Section 10.15
for more).
106. Facebook page
Smithsonian’s National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute.
(n.d.). Home [Facebook page]. Facebook. Retrieved July 22,
2019, from https://www.facebook.com/nationalzoo
Parenthetical citation: (Smithsonian’s National Zoo and
Conservation Biology Institute, n.d.)
Narrative citation: Smithsonian’s National Zoo and
Conservation Biology Institute (n.d.)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 545 ---

Use the page title in the reference (e.g., “Timeline,” “Home,”
“Photos,” “About”).
Include the notation “Facebook page” in square brackets.
This format can be used or adapted for references to other platform
or profile pages, including YouTube, Instagram, Tumblr, LinkedIn,
and so forth.
107. Instagram photo or video
Zeitz MOCAA [@zeitzmocaa]. (2018, November 26). Grade 6
learners from Parkfields Primary School in Hanover Park
visited the museum for a tour and workshop hosted by
[Photographs]. Instagram.
https://www.instagram.com/p/BqpHpjFBs3b/
Parenthetical citation: (Zeitz MOCAA, 2018)
Narrative citation: Zeitz MOCAA (2018)
108. Instagram highlight
The New York Public Library [@nypl]. (n.d.). The raven
[Highlight]. Instagram. Retrieved April 16, 2019, from
https://bitly.com/2FV8bu3
Parenthetical citation: (The New York Public Library, n.d.)
Narrative citation: The New York Public Library (n.d.)
Use “n.d.” for the date; although each story within a highlight is
dated, the highlight itself is not dated and may include stories from
multiple dates.
Because a highlight can change at any time, include the retrieval
date.
Because the URL was long and complex, it has been shortened (see
Section 9.36). Either the long or the short form of the URL is
acceptable.
109. Online forum post
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 546 ---

National Aeronautics and Space Administration [nasa]. (2018,
September 12). I’m NASA astronaut Scott Tingle. Ask me
anything about adjusting to being back on Earth after my first
spaceflight! [Online forum post]. Reddit.
https://www.reddit.com/r/IAmA/comments/9fagqy/im_nasa_a
stronaut_scott_tingle_ask_me_anything/
Parenthetical citation: (National Aeronautics and Space
Administration, 2018)
Narrative citation: National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (2018)
For more on formatting usernames, see Section 9.8.
10.16 Webpages and Websites
Use the webpages and websites category if there is no other
reference category that fits and the work has no parent or
overarching publication (e.g., journal, blog, conference
proceedings) other than the website itself (see Section 9.2).
If you cite multiple webpages from a website, create a
reference for each. To mention a website in general, do not
create a reference list entry or an in-text citation. Instead,
include the name of the website in the text and provide the
URL in parentheses (see Section 8.22 for an example).
For help in determining the author of a webpage or
website reference, including how the author can be inferred
from context or found on an “about us” or
acknowledgments page, see Example 113 as well as
Section 9.7. Provide the most specific date possible (see
Section 9.15 for information on how to handle updated
dates or reviewed dates)—for example, a year, month, and
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 547 ---

day; year and month; or year only. When the author name
and the site name are the same, omit the site name from the
source element. Include a retrieval date only when the
content is designed to change over time and the page is not
archived (see Section 9.16).
Use the template shown next to construct references for
webpages or websites.
Author Date Title
Source
Website
name
URL
Author, A. A., &
Author, B. B.
Name of Group.
(2020).
(2020,
August).
(2020,
September
28).
(n.d.).
Title of
work.
Site
Name.
https://xxxxxx
Retrieved December 22, 2020,
from https://xxxxx
110. Webpage on a news website
Avramova, N. (2019, January 3). The secret to a long, happy,
healthy life? Think age-positive. CNN.
https://www.cnn.com/2019/01/03/health/respect-toward-
elderly-leads-to-long-life-intl/index.html
Bologna, C. (2018, June 27). What happens to your mind and
body when you feel homesick?
HuffPost.https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/what-
happens-mind-body-
homesick_us_5b201ebde4b09d7a3d77eee1
Parenthetical citations: (Avramova, 2019; Bologna, 2018)
Narrative citations: Avramova (2019) and Bologna (2018)
Use this format for articles published in online news sources (e.g.,
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 548 ---

BBC News, Bloomberg, CNN, HuffPost, MSNBC, Reuters, Salon,
Vox). To cite articles from online magazines or newspapers, see
Examples 15 and 16.
111. Webpage on a website with a group author
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2018, January 23).
People at high risk of developing flu-related complications.
https://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/disease/high_risk.htm
World Health Organization. (2018, March). Questions and
answers on immunization and vaccine safety.
https://www.who.int/features/qa/84/en/
Parenthetical citations: (Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, 2018; World Health Organization, 2018)
Narrative citations: Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (2018) and World Health Organization (2018)
When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name
from the source element.
112. Webpage on a website with an individual author
Martin Lillie, C. M. (2016, December 29). Be kind to yourself:
How self-compassion can improve your resiliency. Mayo
Clinic. http://www.ethicsguidebook.ac.uk/EthicsPrinciples
Parenthetical citation: (Martin Lillie, 2016)
Narrative citation: Martin Lillie (2016)
113. Webpage on a website with no date
Boddy, J., Neumann, T., Jennings, S., Morrow, V., Alderson, P.,
Rees, R., & Gibson, W. (n.d.). Ethics principles. The
Research Ethics Guidebook: A Resource for Social
Scientists. http://www.ethicsguidebook.ac.uk/EthicsPrinciples
National Nurses United. (n.d.). What employers should do to
protect nurses from Zika.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 549 ---

https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/pages/what-employers-
should-do-to-protect-rns-from-zika
Parenthetical citations: (Boddy et al., n.d.; National Nurses
United, n.d.)
Narrative citations: Boddy et al. (n.d.) and National Nurses
United (n.d.)
In the Boddy et al. example, the authors are listed on the
acknowledgments page of the site (see Section 9.7 for more on
determining the author).
When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name
from the source element.
114. Webpage on a website with a retrieval date
U.S. Census Bureau. (n.d.). U.S. and world population clock.
U.S. Department of Commerce. Retrieved July 3, 2019, from
https://www.census.gov/popclock/
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Census Bureau, n.d.)
Narrative citation: U.S. Census Bureau (n.d.)
When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name
from the source element.
Include a retrieval date because the contents of the page are
designed to change over time and the page itself is not archived (see
Section 9.16).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 550 ---

11
LEGAL REFERENCES
In APA Style, most legal materials are cited in the standard
legal citation style used for legal references across all
disciplines. However, legal style has notable differences
from the APA Style references outlined in Chapter 10.
In this chapter, we provide information on how APA
Style references differ from legal style references; general
guidelines for creating APA Style legal references; in-text
citation forms for legal materials; and examples of common
legal references used in APA Style papers, including court
decisions, statutes, legislative materials, administrative and
executive materials, patents, constitutions and charters, and
treaties and international conventions. For the sake of
brevity, only United States and United Nations legal
examples are provided in this chapter. For more
information on preparing these and other kinds of legal
references, consult The Bluebook: A Uniform System of
Citation (Bluebook, 2015).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 551 ---

General Guidelines for Legal References
11.1 APA Style References Versus Legal
References
Existing legal references are usually already written in legal
style and require few, if any, changes for an APA Style
reference list entry. Note that some court decisions are
reported in multiple places, which is called parallel citation
(see Example 6). When a work has parallel citations,
include all the citations in your reference list entry. Existing
legal citations generally include the parallel citations
already, so you should not need to do additional research to
find them. The in-text citation for a legal work is created
from the reference list entry (see Section 11.3).
Ensure that your legal references are accurate and
contain all of the information necessary to enable readers to
locate the work being referenced. If you have questions
beyond what is covered in this chapter, consult the
Bluebook, a law librarian, or a law school website for help.
For example, the Legal Information Institute at Cornell
Law School provides free guidance on legal citations
(https://www.law.cornell.edu). These resources will help
you verify that your legal references (a) contain the
information necessary for retrieval and (b) reflect the
current status of the legal authority cited to avoid the
possibility of relying on a case that has been overturned on
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 552 ---

appeal or on legislation that has been significantly amended
or repealed. Table 11.1 summarizes key differences
between APA Style references and legal style references.
Table 11.1 Key Differences Between APA Style References and Legal References
Difference APA Style Legal style
Order of
elements in
the reference
list entry
Usually the
author, date, title,
and 
source, in
that order
Usually the title, source, and date, in that order
In-text
citation
Usually the 
author
and year
Usually the title and year
Version of
work being
referenced
The 
exact version
used
The version of record as published in an official legal
publication such as the United States Code or the
Federal Register, plus a URL (optional) for the
version used
Use of
standard
abbreviations
Used for 
parts of
a work (e.g., “2nd
ed.” for a second
edition)
Used for common 
legal entities and publications
(e.g., “S.” for the Senate and “H.R.” for the House of
Representatives)
11.2 General Forms
A general form is provided for each of the legal reference
types in the sections that follow. Each reference form
usually includes a popular or formal title or name of the
legislation and the reference information, which is called
the citation.
Note: The term “citation” is used differently for legal references
than it is in standard APA Style. In this chapter, the legal
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 553 ---

reference sense of the word “citation” is meant when it appears
without the modifier “in-text.”
Refer to the published statutory compilation of legislative
materials where the legislation is codified (e.g., a specific
numbered section of a specific volume of the United States
Code), including the compilation’s publication date in
parentheses, if the legislation has been codified. If the
legislation has not yet been codified, provide the
identifying label for the legislation assigned by the enacting
body during the particular legislative session (e.g., a
specific section of an act identified by its public law
number).
For both legislation and court decisions, the reference
may be followed by certain additional descriptive
information that pertains to the content of the legislation or
court decision, the history of the legislation or court
decision (e.g., later appeals of court decisions or later
amendments to legislation), or other sources from which
the legislation or court citation may be retrieved. Consult
the Bluebook for the proper format for such additional
information.
Because legal references may include a great deal of
information (e.g., a citation to a case may include
information about appeals), legal reference style uses
abbreviations to make references shorter. See Table 11.2
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 554 ---

for some examples of the more common legal abbreviations
that appear in APA Style papers.
Table 11.2 Common Legal Reference Abbreviations
Word or phrase Abbreviation
Part of government
  Congress
  House of Representatives
  Senate
 
Cong.
H.R.
S.
Type of legal material
  Regulation
  Resolution
 
Reg.
Res.
Section of legal material
  Section
  Sections
  Number
  And following
 
§
§§
No.
et seq.
Reporter (source) of federal legal material
  United States Reports
  Federal Reporter
  Federal Reporter, Second Series
  Federal Reporter, Third Series
  Federal Supplement
  Federal Supplement, Second Series
  Federal Supplement, Third Series
  United States Code
  Congressional Record
  Federal Register
 
U.S.
F.
F.2d
F.3d
F. Supp.
F. Supp. 2d
F. Supp. 3d
U.S.C.
Cong. Rec.
F.R.
11.3 In-Text Citations of Legal Materials
Although the reference formats for legal materials differ
from those of other kinds of works cited in APA
publications, in-text citations are formed in approximately
the same way and serve the same purpose. Most legal
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 555 ---

reference entries begin with the title of the work; as a
result, most in-text citations consist of the title and year
(e.g., Americans With Disabilities Act, 1990; Brown v.
Board of Education, 1954). If the title is long (e.g., for
federal testimony), shorten it for the in-text citation (see
Example 14), but give enough information in the in-text
citation to enable readers to locate the entry in the reference
list. Examples of in-text citations and reference entries for
legal materials are given in the sections that follow.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 556 ---

Legal Reference Examples
11.4 Cases or Court Decisions
A reference for a case or court decision includes the
following information:
title or name of the case, usually one party versus
another (e.g., Brown v. Board of Education);
citation, usually to a volume and page of one of the
various sets of books where published cases can be
found called reporters, which typically contain decisions
of courts in particular political divisions, which are
called jurisdictions (e.g., Federal Reporter, Second
Series);
precise jurisdiction of the court writing the decision
(e.g., U.S. district court, New York Court of Appeals), in
parentheses;
date of the decision, in parentheses (in the same set of
parentheses as the jurisdiction if both are present); and
URL from which you retrieved the case information
(optional; this is not strictly required for legal citations
but may aid readers in retrieval).
To create a reference list entry for the case you want to cite,
first identify the court that decided the case and then follow
the relevant example. Often, the document about the case
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 557 ---

will have the relevant citation included, or it can easily be
retrieved by searching the internet for the name of the court
decision and the word “citation.” When a reference list
entry for a case or court decision includes a page range,
provide only the first page number. Do not provide the
page range for the whole case or decision.
Note: Unlike other reference types, the title or name of a case is
written in standard type in the reference list entry and in italic
type in the in-text citation.
Federal Court Decisions. The United States has both
federal and state court systems. Within federal courts there
are multiple levels of authority, and decisions from these
courts are published in different publications.
U.S. Supreme Court: Decisions from the U.S. Supreme
Court, the highest federal court, are published in the
United States Reports (other reporters may also publish
Supreme Court decisions). The template for Supreme
Court decisions is as follows:
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume U.S. Page (Year).
URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year)
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year)
U.S. Circuit Court: Decisions from the U.S. Circuit
Court are published in the Federal Reporter. The
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 558 ---

template for U.S. Circuit Court decisions is as follows:
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume F. [or F.2d, F.3d]
Page (Court Year). URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year)
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year)
U.S. District Court: Decisions from the U.S. District
Court are published in the Federal Supplements. The
template for U.S. District Court decisions is as follows:
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume F. Supp. Page (Court
Year). URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year)
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year)
State Court Decisions. At the state level, courts also
operate at different levels of authority, although different
states have different names for the levels. These levels are
as follows:
State supreme court: The state supreme court is
generally the highest state court (the state of New York
is one exception; the court of appeals is the highest court
in that state).
State appellate court: The state court of appeals, also
called appellate court, is the intermediate court wherein
precedent begins to be established.
State trial court: The state trial court is the lowest court
of the state. State trial court decisions are seldom cited
because they do not establish precedent, and they are not
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 559 ---

reported in the prominent legal databases Nexis Uni
(formerly LexisNexis Academic) or WestLaw.
The template for state court decisions is as follows:
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume Reporter Page (Court
Year). URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year)
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year)
 1. U.S. Supreme Court case, with a page number
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954).
https://www.oyez.org/cases/1940-1955/347us483
Parenthetical citation: (Brown v. Board of Education, 1954)
Narrative citation: Brown v. Board of Education (1954)
U.S. Supreme Court decisions are published in the United States
Reports (abbreviated “U.S.” in the reference). For example, the
decision to eliminate racial segregation in public schools, Brown v.
Board of Education, was published in Volume 347 of the United
States Reports, on page 483, in the year 1954. Cite Supreme Court
decisions as published in the United States Reports whenever
possible; cite the Supreme Court Reporter for cases that have not yet
been published in United States Reports.
 2. U.S. Supreme Court case, without a page number
Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U.S. ___ (2015).
https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/14pdf/14-
556_3204.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Obergefell v. Hodges, 2015)
Narrative citation: Obergefell v. Hodges (2015)
The court decision to legalize same-sex marriage in the United States,
Obergefell v. Hodges, occurred in 2015 and was published in
Volume 576 of the United States Reports. However, as of the printing
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 560 ---

of this Publication Manual, the paginated volumes of the United
States Reports have been published only for decisions through the
2012 Supreme Court term. For cases that have not been assigned a
page number (like Obergefell v. Hodges), include three underscores
instead of the page number in the reference list entry.
 3. U.S. circuit court case
Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 951 F.2d 1128 (9th
Cir. 1991). https://openjurist.org/951/f2d/1128/william-daubert-
v-merrell-dow-pharmaceuticals
Parenthetical citation: (Daubert v. Merrell Dow
Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 1991)
Narrative citation: Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,
Inc. (1991)
This court decision regarding birth defects resulting from medication
use during pregnancy appeared in Volume 951 of the Federal
Reporter, Second Series, on page 1128, and was decided by the 9th
Circuit Court in the year 1991.
 4. U.S. district court case
Burriola v. Greater Toledo YMCA, 133 F. Supp. 2d 1034 (N.D.
Ohio 2001). https://law.justia.com/cases/federal/district-
courts/FSupp2/133/1034/2293141/
Parenthetical citation: (Burriola v. Greater Toledo YMCA,
2001)
Narrative citation: Burriola v. Greater Toledo YMCA (2001)
This court decision stating that children with special needs should
receive accommodations for services at public after-school-care
providers under the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990
appeared in Volume 133 of the Federal Supplement, Second Series,
on page 1034. It was decided by the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Ohio in the year 2001.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 561 ---

 5. U.S. district court case with appeal
Durflinger v. Artiles, 563 F. Supp. 322 (D. Kan. 1981), aff’d, 727
F.2d 888 (10th Cir. 1984).
https://openjurist.org/727/f2d/888/durflinger-v-artiles
Parenthetical citation: (Durflinger v. Artiles, 1981/1984)
Narrative citation: Durflinger v. Artiles (1981/1984)
This court decision regarding whether third parties should be
protected from involuntarily committed psychiatric patients in state
custody was rendered by the federal district court for the District of
Kansas in the year 1981. On appeal, the decision was affirmed by the
federal-level 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in 1984. Information
about both the original decision and the appealed decision appears in
the reference list entry.
If on appeal the decision is affirmed, the abbreviation “aff’d” is used
between the two components, in italics and set off by commas; if the
decision is overturned or reversed, the abbreviation “rev’d” is used,
in italics and set off by commas.
Consult the Bluebook for the proper forms of the various stages in a
case’s history.
 6. State supreme court case
Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California, 17 Cal.3d 425,
131 Cal. Rptr. 14, 551 P.2d 334 (1976).
https://www.casebriefs.com/blog/law/torts/torts-keyed-to-
dobbs/the-duty-to-protect-from-third-persons/tarasoff-v-
regents-of-university-of-california
Parenthetical citation: (Tarasoff v. Regents of the University
of California, 1976)
Narrative citation: Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of
California (1976)
This court decision held that mental health professionals have a duty
to protect individuals who are being threatened with bodily harm by a
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 562 ---

patient. It was decided by the Supreme Court of the State of
California in the year 1976.
The court decision was reported in three places, which are all
included in the parallel citation (see Section 11.1), shown here
separated with commas. These three sources are Volume 17 of the
California Reports, Third Series (Cal.3d), page 425; Volume 131 of
the California Reporter (Cal. Rptr.), page 14; and Volume 551 of the
Pacific Reporter, Second Series (P.2d), page 334. All three report
locations are generally reported together, so no additional research is
needed to find them.
 7. State appellate court case
Texas v. Morales, 826 S.W.2d 201 (Tex. Ct. App. 1992).
https://www.leagle.com/decision/19921027826sw2d20111010
Parenthetical citation: (Texas v. Morales, 1992)
Narrative citation: Texas v. Morales (1992)
This court decision found that the equal protection and due process
components of the Texas Constitution prohibit the criminalization of
consensual same-sex activity among adults in private. It was
published in Volume 826 of the South Western Reporter, Second
Series, page 201, decided by the Texas State Court of Appeals in the
year 1992.
11.5 Statutes (Laws and Acts)
A statute is a law or act passed by a legislative body. As
with court decisions, statutes exist on both the federal and
state levels, such as an act passed by Congress or by a state
government.
Federal statutes are published in the United States Code
(U.S.C.). The U.S.C. is divided into sections called titles—
for example, Title 42 refers to public health and welfare.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 563 ---

New laws are then added to the appropriate title as a way of
keeping the law organized. State statutes are published in
state-specific compilations; for example, statutes pertaining
to the state of Florida are published in the Florida Statutes.
State statutes are also typically organized into titles.
In the reference list entry for a federal or state statute,
include the name of the act; the title, source (abbreviated as
specified in the Bluebook), and section number of the
statute; and, in parentheses, the publication date of the
statutory compilation you used (e.g., the U.S.C. or a state-
specific compilation). You may include the URL from
which you retrieved the statute after the year. This is not
strictly required for legal citations but may aid readers in
retrieval.
In the in-text citation, give the popular or official name
of the act (if any) and the year of the act. Determining the
year for the statute can be confusing because there is often
a year when the statute was first passed, a year when it was
amended, and a year when it was supplemented. The year
in the reference list entry and in-text citation should refer to
the year in which the statute was published in the source
being cited. This date may be different from the year in the
name of the act.
The template for federal or state statutes is as follows:
Reference list: Name of Act, Title Source § Section Number
(Year). URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name of Act, Year)
Narrative citation: Name of Act (Year)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 564 ---

The format for state statutes may differ depending on the
state but generally follows the same format as for federal
statutes. Consult the Bluebook or another legal resource for
further information on your particular state. For example, a
few states use chapter or article numbers instead of section
numbers; for a reference to a statute from one of these
states, use the chapter or article number in the reference in
place of the section number. Use abbreviations or symbols
as shown in the Bluebook.
To cite a federal statute (i.e., a law or act), cite the statute
as it was codified in the United States Code. You may see a
public law number on the act as well; this number is used in
the reference list entry when the act is codified in scattered
sections (see Example 9) or to refer to an act before it is
codified (see Example 11). However, if a statute has been
codified in the United States Code in a single section or
range of sections (see Example 8), it is not necessary to
include the public law number in the reference.
Next are several examples of acts commonly cited in
APA Style papers. Citations to other federal statutes follow
the same format.
 8. Federal statute, Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990
Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. § 12101 et
seq. (1990). https://www.ada.gov/pubs/adastatute08.htm
Parenthetical citation: (Americans With Disabilities Act,
1990)
Narrative citation: Americans With Disabilities Act (1990)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 565 ---

This act can be located beginning at Section 12101 of Title 42 of the
United States Code and was codified in the year 1990. The phrase “et
seq.” is Latin for “and what follows” and is a shorthand way of
showing that the act covers not only the initial section cited but also
others that follow.
 9. Federal statute, Civil Rights Act of 1964
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241 (1964).
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/STATUTE-
78/pdf/STATUTE-78-Pg241.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Civil Rights Act, 1964)
Narrative citation: Civil Rights Act (1964)
The Civil Rights Act of 1964 is codified in the United States Code in
three scattered sections: 2 U.S.C., 28 U.S.C., and 42 U.S.C. To cite
the entire act, use the public law number as shown in the example.
10. Federal statute, Every Student Succeeds Act
Every Student Succeeds Act, 20 U.S.C. § 6301 (2015).
https://www.congress.gov/114/plaws/publ95/PLAW-
114publ95.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Every Student Succeeds Act, 2015)
Narrative citation: Every Student Succeeds Act (2015)
The Every Student Succeeds Act pertains to educational policy for
students in public primary and secondary schools. It was codified in
Title 20 of the United States Code in Section 6301 in the year 2015.
11. Federal statute, Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, Pub. L. No. 111-2, 123 Stat.
5 (2009). https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/PLAW-
111publ2/pdf/PLAW-111publ2.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, 2009)
Narrative citation: Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (2009)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 566 ---

The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 amended Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act (1964) and other acts and pertains to fair wage
compensation. Because it was not codified in the United States Code,
cite the public law number. It was published in Volume 123 of the
United States Statutes at Large (abbreviated “Stat.”) beginning on
page 5 in the year 2009.
12. Federal statute, Title IX (Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in
Education Act)
Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, 20 U.S.C. § 1681
et seq. (1972). https://www.justice.gov/crt/title-ix-education-
amendments-1972
Parenthetical citation: (Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in
Education Act, 1972)
Narrative citation: Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education
Act (1972)
The Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, commonly
known as Title IX, prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in
federally funded educational programs such as sports. It was
published in Volume 20 of the United States Code, beginning at
Section 1681, in the year 1972. Note that “Title IX” refers to part of
the Education Amendments of 1972, not Title 9 of the United States
Code.
13. State statute in state code
Florida Mental Health Act, Fla. Stat. § 394 (1971 & rev. 2009).
http://www.leg.state.fl.us/statutes/index.cfm?
App_mode=Display_Statute&URL=0300-0399/0394/0394.html
Parenthetical citation: (Florida Mental Health Act,
1971/2009)
Narrative citation: Florida Mental Health Act (1971/2009)
This Florida act can be found in the Florida Statutes, Section 394. It
was first codified in the year 1971 and then revised in 2009. Both
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 567 ---

years appear in the in-text citation, separated by a slash.
Consult the Bluebook for formats for other states.
11.6 Legislative Materials
Legislative materials include federal testimony, hearings,
bills, resolutions, reports, and related documents. Bills and
resolutions that have been passed by both houses of
Congress and signed by the president become law and
should be cited as statutes (see Section 11.5). To cite an
unenacted bill or resolution (i.e., one that was not passed by
both houses of Congress) or an enacted bill or resolution
that was not signed into law, follow the forms in this
section. When a URL for the material is available, it is
optional to include it at the end of the reference list entry.
14. Federal testimony
Template:
Title of testimony, xxx Cong. (Year) (testimony of Testifier Name).
URL
Example:
Federal real property reform: How cutting red tape and better
management could achieve billions in savings, U.S. Senate
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs,
114th Cong. (2016) (testimony of Norman Dong).
http://www.gsa.gov/portal/content/233107
Parenthetical citation: (Federal Real Property Reform, 2016)
Narrative citation: Federal Real Property Reform (2016)
For the title of federal testimony, include the title as it appears on the work
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 568 ---

and the subcommittee and/or committee name (if any), separated by a
comma. Then provide the number of the Congress, the year in
parentheses, and “testimony of” followed by the name of the person who
gave the testimony in separate parentheses. When the testimony is
available online, also include a URL.
15. Full federal hearing
Template:
Title of hearing, xxx Cong. (Year). URL
Example:
Strengthening the federal student loan program for borrowers:
Hearing before the U.S. Senate Committee on Health,
Education, Labor & Pensions, 113th Cong. (2014).
https://www.help.senate.gov/hearings/strengthening-the-
federal-student-loan-program-for-borrowers
Parenthetical citation: (Strengthening the Federal Student
Loan Program, 2014)
Narrative citation: Strengthening the Federal Student Loan
Program (2014)
For the title of a full federal hearing, include the name of the hearing
and the subcommittee name. Provide the number of the Congress and
year. When a video or other information about the hearing is
available online, include its URL.
16. Unenacted federal bill or resolution
Template:
Title [if relevant], H.R. or S. bill number, xxx Cong. (Year). URL
Title [if relevant], H.R. or S. Res. resolution number, xxx Cong.
(Year). URL
Example:
Mental Health on Campus Improvement Act, H.R. 1100, 113th
Cong. (2013). https://www.congress.gov/bill/113th-
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 569 ---

congress/house-bill/1100
Parenthetical citation: (Mental Health on Campus
Improvement Act, 2013)
Narrative citation: Mental Health on Campus Improvement
Act (2013)
The number should be preceded by “H.R.” (House of
Representatives) or “S.” (Senate), depending on the source of the
unenacted bill or resolution.
17. Enacted simple or concurrent federal resolution
Template for Senate:
S. Res. xxx, xxx Cong., Volume Cong. Rec. Page (Year)
(enacted). URL
Template for House of Representatives:
H.R. Res. xxx, xxx Cong., Volume Cong. Rec. Page (Year)
(enacted). URL
Example:
S. Res. 438, 114th Cong., 162 Cong. Rec. 2394 (2016) (enacted).
https://www.congress.gov/congressional-
record/2016/04/21/senate-section/article/S2394-2
Parenthetical citation: (S. Resolution 438, 2016)
Narrative citation: Senate Resolution 438 (2016)
Use this format to cite enacted simple or concurrent resolutions from
Congress. These resolutions are reported in the Congressional Record
(abbreviated “Cong. Rec.”).
Enacted bills and joint resolutions are laws and should be cited as
statutes (see Section 11.5).
In the example, the Senate designated September 2016 as National
Brain Aneurysm Awareness Month. The resolution is numbered 438
and is reported in Volume 162 of the Congressional Record on page
2394.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 570 ---

18. Federal report
Template for Senate:
S. Rep. No. xxx-xxx (Year). URL
Template for House of Representatives:
H.R. Rep. No. xxx-xxx (Year). URL
Example:
H.R. Rep. No. 114-358 (2015).
https://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-114hrpt358/pdf/CRPT-
114hrpt358.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (H.R. Rep. No. 114-358, 2015)
Narrative citation: House of Representatives Report No. 114-
358 (2015)
This report was submitted to the House of Representatives by the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs concerning the Veterans
Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act.
For reports submitted to the Senate, use the abbreviation “S. Rep.
No.” in the reference list entry and “Senate Report No.” in the in-text
citation.
11.7 Administrative and Executive Materials
Administrative and executive materials include rules and
regulations, advisory opinions, and executive orders.
19. Federal regulation, codified
Template:
Title or Number, Volume C.F.R. § xxx (Year). URL
Example:
Protection of Human Subjects, 45 C.F.R. § 46 (2009).
https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/sites/default/files/ohrp/policy/ohrpreg
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 571 ---

ulations.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Protection of Human Subjects, 2009)
Narrative citation: Protection of Human Subjects (2009)
Official federal regulations are published in the Code of Federal
Regulations. In the reference, provide the title or number of the
regulation, the volume number in which the regulation appears in the
Code of Federal Regulations, the abbreviation “C.F.R.,” the section
number, and the year in which the regulation was codified. If the
regulation is available online, provide the URL.
20. Federal regulation, not yet codified
Template:
Title or Number, Volume F.R. Page (proposed Month Day, Year)
(to be codified at Volume C.F.R. § xxx). URL
Example:
Defining and Delimiting the Exemptions for Executive,
Administrative, Professional, Outside Sales and Computer
Employees, 81 F.R. 32391 (proposed May 23, 2016) (to be
codified at 29 C.F.R. § 541).
https://www.federalregister.gov/articles/2016/05/23/2016-
11754/defining-and-delimiting-the-exemptions-for-executive-
administrative-professional-outside-sales-and
Parenthetical citation: (Defining and Delimiting, 2016)
Narrative citation: Defining and Delimiting (2016)
If the regulation has not yet been codified in the
Code of Federal Regulations, it will appear in the
Federal Register first. Indicate this by the
abbreviation “F.R.” instead of “C.F.R.” Instead of the
year codified, provide the date of proposal. Also
include the section of the Code of Federal
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 572 ---

Regulations where the proposed rule will be codified.
21. Executive order
Template:
Exec. Order No. xxxxx, 3 C.F.R. Page (Year). URL
Example:
Exec. Order No. 13,676, 3 C.F.R. 294 (2014).
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CFR-2015-title3-
vol1/pdf/CFR-2015-title3-vol1-eo13676.pdf
Parenthetical citation: (Exec. Order No. 13,676, 2014)
Narrative citation: Executive Order No. 13,676 (2014)
Executive orders are reported in Title 3 of the Code of Federal
Regulations, so “3 C.F.R.” is always included in the reference list
entry for an executive order.
The executive order in the example addressed how to combat
antibiotic-resistant bacteria. It was published in the Code of Federal
Regulations, on page 294, in the year 2014.
11.8 Patents
Patent references look more like typical APA Style
references because the elements of author (inventor), year,
title and patent number, and source are included in that
order.
Reference list: Inventor, A. A. (Year Patent Issued). Title of
patent (U.S. Patent No. x,xxx,xxx). U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. URL
Parenthetical citation: (Inventor, Year)
Narrative citation: Inventor (Year)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 573 ---

The URL of the patent is optional but may be included in
the reference list entry if available.
22. Patent
Hiremath, S. C., Kumar, S., Lu, F., & Salehi, A. (2016). Using
metaphors to present concepts across different intellectual
domains (U.S. Patent No. 9,367,592). U.S. Patent and Trade-
mark Office. http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?
patentnumber=9367592
Parenthetical citation: (Hiremath et al., 2016)
Narrative citation: Hiremath et al. (2016)
This patent was issued in 2016 to the inventors
Hiremath et al., who worked for the computer
company IBM. The patent number is a unique
identifying code given to every patent. The year
refers to the year the patent was issued, not the year
the patent was applied for.
11.9 Constitutions and Charters
To cite a whole federal or state constitution, a citation is not
necessary. Simply refer to the constitution in text.
The U.S. Constitution has 26 amendments.
The Massachusetts Constitution was ratified in 1780.
Create reference list entries and in-text citations for
citations to articles and amendments of constitutions. In the
reference list and in parenthetical citations, abbreviate U.S.
Constitution to “U.S. Const.” and use the legal state
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 574 ---

abbreviation for a state constitution (e.g. “Md. Const.” for
the Maryland Constitution; see a list of state abbreviations
for legal references at the Legal Information Institute at
https://www.law.cornell.edu/citation/4-500). In the
narrative, use either “U.S.” or “United States” for the U.S.
Constitution, and spell out the name of the state for a state
constitution—for example, “the Wisconsin Constitution.”
U.S. Constitution article and amendment numbers are
Roman numerals. State constitution article numbers are
also Roman numerals, but state constitution amendment
numbers are Arabic numerals. URLs are not necessary for
the reference. Additional information about the cited source
can be included in the narrative, if desired.
23. Article of the U.S. Constitution
Template:
U.S. Const. art. xxx, § x.
Example:
U.S. Const. art. I, § 3.
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Const. art. I, § 3)
Narrative citation: Article I, Section 3, of the U.S. Constitution
24. Article of a state constitution
Template:
State Const. art. xxx, § x.
Example:
S.C. Const. art. XI, § 3.
Parenthetical citation: (S.C. Const. art. IX, § 3)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 575 ---

Narrative citation: Article IX, Section 3, of the South Carolina
Constitution
25. Amendment to the U.S. Constitution
Template:
U.S. Const. amend. xxx.
Example:
U.S. Const. amend. XIX.
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Const. amend. XIX)
Narrative citation: Amendment XIX to the U.S. Constitution
Amendments to state constitutions are cited in the
same way as amendments to the U.S. Constitution.
No date is needed in the reference unless the
amendment has been repealed (see Example 26).
26. Repealed amendment to the U.S. Constitution
Template:
U.S. Const. amend. xxx (repealed Year).
Example:
U.S. Const. amend. XVIII (repealed 1933).
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Const. amend. XVIII, repealed
1933)
Narrative citation: Amendment XVIII to the U.S. Constitution
was repealed in 1933
Because the amendment was repealed, a year is
included in the reference.
Repealed amendments to state constitutions are cited
in the same way as repealed amendments to the U.S.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 576 ---

Constitution.
27. U.S. Bill of Rights
U.S. Const. amend. I–X.
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Const. amend. I–X)
Narrative citation: Amendments I–X to the U.S. Constitution
The first 10 amendments to the U.S. Constitution are
collectively referred to as the Bill of Rights. The
citation is the same as that for an amendment to the
constitution, except that the range of amendments is
included in the citation.
28. Charter of the United Nations
Template:
U.N. Charter art. xx, para. xx.
Example:
U.N. Charter art. 1, para. 3.
Parenthetical citation: (U.N. Charter art. 1, para. 3)
Narrative citation: Article 1, paragraph 3, of the United Nations
Charter
A citation to the charter of the United Nations should
include the name of the agreement, the article
number, and the paragraph number. To cite an entire
article, omit the paragraph number.
11.10 Treaties and International Conventions
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 577 ---

References for treaties or international conventions should
include the name of the treaty, convention, or other
agreement; the signing or approval date; and a URL if
available. In text, provide the name of the treaty or
convention and the year.
Reference list: Name of Treaty or Convention, Month Day,
Year, URL
Parenthetical citation: (Name of Treaty or Convention, Year)
Narrative citation: Name of Treaty or Convention (Year)
29. United Nations convention
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, November
20, 1989,
https://www.ohchr.org/en/professionalinterest/pages/crc.aspx
Parenthetical citation: (United Nations Convention on the
Rights of the Child, 1989)
Narrative citation: United Nations Convention on the Rights
of the Child (1989)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 578 ---

12
PUBLICATION
PROCESS
Authors, editors, reviewers, and publishers share responsibility for the ethical
and efficient handling of a manuscript, beginning when the editor receives
the manuscript and extending through the life of the published article.
In this chapter, we provide authors with guidance on preparing for
publication, including how to adapt a dissertation or thesis into a journal
article, prepare a manuscript for submission, select an appropriate and
reputable journal for publication, and navigate the editorial publication
process. Following are sections on copyright and permission guidelines for
reprinting or adapting certain kinds of copyrighted works, the format for
writing copyright attributions, and the steps to take during and after
publication.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 579 ---

Preparing for Publication
12.1 Adapting a Dissertation or Thesis Into a Journal Article
A dissertation or thesis often provides the foundation for a new researcher’s
first published work. This original research can be reformatted for journal
submission following one of two general strategies.
The quickest strategy for “flipping” a dissertation or thesis into a published
article or articles is to structure the work using a multiple-paper format,
wherein the final product submitted to fulfill the requirements for a degree
consists of a paper or a series of papers that are formatted for journal
submission (or close to it). These papers are usually conceptually similar (and
often come from the same overarching project) but can stand alone as
independent research reports. Benefits of this strategy include having your
paper already formatted for and at a length consistent with journal guidelines,
thereby saving time and effort in preparing for publication. In fact, you may
even include manuscripts that are coauthored and under review, in press, or
published elsewhere in your dissertation or thesis, provided that all policies
regarding article copyright are met (see Section 12.20). Talk to your
university’s editorial office beforehand to confirm that this is an acceptable
format and to obtain the specific guidelines for writing and structuring the
dissertation or thesis.
A second strategy to convert a dissertation or thesis into a journal article
after completing your defense is to reformat the work to fit the scope and
style of a journal article. This often requires adjustments to the following
elements (see the APA Style website at https://apastyle.apa.org for more):
length: Shorten the overall paper length by eliminating text within
sections, eliminating entire sections, or separating distinct research
questions into individual papers (but see Section 1.16). If the work
examined several distinct research questions, narrow the focus to a
specific topic for each paper. Consult the journal article reporting
standards in Chapter 3 to learn more about essential information to report
in quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods research.
references: Include only the most pertinent references (i.e., theoretically
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 580 ---

important or recent), especially in the introduction and literature review,
rather than providing an exhaustive list. Ensure that the works you cite
contribute to readers’ knowledge of the specific topic and to the
understanding and contextualization of your current research.
introduction section: Eliminate extraneous content or sections that do not
directly contribute to readers’ knowledge or understanding of the specific
research question(s) under investigation. End with a clear description of
the questions, aims, or hypotheses that informed your research.
Method section: Provide enough information to allow readers to
understand how the data were collected and evaluated (following the
journal article reporting standards in Chapter 3); full details about every
step or the rationale behind it are unnecessary. Instead, refer readers to
previous works that informed the current study’s methods or to
supplemental materials.
Results and Discussion sections: Report the most relevant results and
adjust the discussion accordingly. Ensure that the results directly
contribute to answering your original research questions or hypotheses;
check that your interpretation and application of the findings are
appropriate.
tables and figures: Make sure that tables or figures are essential (see
Chapter 7) and do not reproduce content provided in the text.
Students seeking to prepare their dissertation or thesis for publication are
advised to look at articles in the field and in relevant journals to see what
structure and focus are appropriate for their work. To gain insight into how
journal articles look and what they have and do not have, students might also
consider reviewing an article submitted to a journal alongside their advisor
(with permission from the journal editor) or serving as a reviewer for a
student competition. Doing so offers firsthand insight into how authors are
evaluated when undergoing peer review (see Section 12.7). Additionally,
advisors or other colleagues may be coauthors on manuscripts that are based
on a dissertation or thesis; students should request and consider the input of
these coauthors during the conversion process (see Section 1.22 on the order
of authors).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 581 ---

12.2 Selecting a Journal for Publication
Selecting a journal for publication should be an integral and early step of the
writing process because the choice of journal can shape the form of the
manuscript. For example, journals vary in their length requirements; some
journals publish brief reports in addition to articles, whereas others publish
only longer articles. Likewise, some journals reach a wide array of readers,
whereas others are more specialized. Additional considerations are the
journal’s topical areas, open access policy, impact factor, time to publication,
and citation style. The characteristics of a journal and its intended audience
should inform your journal selection process.
If you are unsure about how to select a journal for publication, take a look
at your reference list as you write: What journals do you cite repeatedly?
What themes do you see reflected in the articles published in that journal?
You can also look at the reference lists of published articles that are similar to
yours to get an idea of where researchers in your field are publishing. Also
ask coauthors or colleagues for recommendations. Follow up on possible
leads by contacting the journal editor to make sure that your topic is within
the scope of the journal and would be of interest to its audience. Editors may
be able to immediately tell you that the article topic is outside the purview of
their journal and even suggest a more suitable journal. Through this process,
you will begin to form a list of potential journals for publication.
The next step is to narrow this list down to one or two possible journals by
assessing two factors: appropriateness and prestige.
Appropriateness. Because all journals specialize in certain kinds of research,
it is important that your research be appropriate for the venue you choose.
One of the most common reasons editors reject a manuscript is because the
research is not appropriate for the journal. To learn about a journal’s scope,
peruse past issues and read the journal’s description on its website. Also
consult the journal’s manuscript submission guidelines and author
instructions to identify the journal’s disciplinary and methodological
boundaries. Look for similarities with your paper in the following areas:
populations: Consider factors such as demographic characteristics,
diagnosis, and setting (e.g., naturalistic vs. laboratory).
methods: Consider the use of quantitative, qualitative, review, meta-
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 582 ---

analytic, mixed methods, and other approaches (see Sections 1.1–1.9).
themes: Consider the themes that unite the articles published in the
journal.
article features: Consider features such as length (e.g., brief reports vs.
long reviews), complexity, citation style, and so forth.
Prestige. Publication in a prestigious journal will be a boon to your career
and your work. When it comes to selecting a journal for publication, it is
important to keep in mind that more than one high-quality journal may be an
appropriate fit for your article. The prestige of a journal can be assessed in
many ways; one way is by consulting indices such as the impact factor,
rejection rate, and number of citations to articles in the journal. Prestigious
journals are peer reviewed, have an editorial board composed of
distinguished researchers in the field, and are included in trusted abstracting
and indexing research databases in your field as an indication of the journals’
reach to their key audiences.
12.3 Prioritizing Potential Journals
Publication is not a matter simply of submitting to the most prestigious
journal possible but rather of identifying a set of the most appropriate
journals for your research and then selecting one that is well regarded. We
suggest that you choose two journals to which to submit your research: your
preferred choice and a backup. Remember that in the social sciences, you can
submit a manuscript to only one journal at a time, so prioritize the journals
accordingly. Preselecting two potential journals will help alleviate the burden
of reviewing journals again should your manuscript be rejected by the first.
If you are unable to decide between options, prioritize appropriateness over
prestige. The goal of publication is to share your research with your academic
community; thus, if you publish in a prestigious journal but not an
appropriate one, it will be harder for interested readers to find your work.
Researchers typically subscribe to certain journals to keep apprised of new
and relevant research and to receive alerts when new material is published.
Therefore, choosing an appropriate and well-regarded journal for publication
allows your work to be noticed by researchers well acquainted with your
discipline and to better contribute to the growth of knowledge in the field.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 583 ---

Other considerations that may inform your decision are the time to first
response or to publication (which may be relevant to graduate students
looking to publish articles from their dissertation or thesis before graduation),
publishing costs (which may be relevant to researchers without grant
funding), whether it is a journal for which you or your colleagues have been a
reviewer, international scope or readership, and open access status.
12.4 Avoiding Predatory Journals
This section provides cautionary guidance for editors and authors. In the
same way that authors are obligated to abide by ethical and professional
standards when conducting research, journal editorial offices and publishers
are expected to be rigorous in evaluating the articles they publish.
Unfortunately, there are journals and publishers that engage in predatory or
deceptive practices, involving any number of unethical or negligent means of
soliciting, evaluating, and/or publishing articles.
Predatory journals (also called deceptive journals) are those whose
publishers aggressively solicit manuscripts to be published and charge fees to
do so without providing services to justify those fees. This practice is also
called deceptive publishing. Open access journals that charge author fees for
publication are not inherently predatory, but predatory journals commonly
use this model. These journals often have the following characteristics:
informal solicitation: The journal may solicit publication via an email
that is informal (e.g., containing many exclamation points), poorly
written, and signed by an editorial assistant as opposed to the editor. If the
editor is identified in the email or journal website, check the editor’s
website or CV to confirm that the journal editorship is listed.
hidden publisher or website: The journal’s website or publisher may be
purposefully excluded from communications to avoid scrutiny,
particularly if the journal’s name might be mistaken for the name of a
leading journal in the field. If the only links in the email are to the online
peer review system and a generic editor email (e.g.,
JournalEditor@[publisher].com), search for the journal online and review
its website.
lack of rigorous evaluation: The journal may not use rigorous evaluation
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 584 ---

standards; for example, it may omit peer review or use only a cursory peer
review process and may lack editing, archiving, and/or indexing services
(Bowman, 2014), resulting in low-quality papers.
lack of transparency: The journal’s website may make it difficult to
locate information about the editorial process or publishing operations
(e.g., publishing fees, editorial staff; Masten & Ashcraft, 2017).
poor reputation: The journal’s publisher may not have a good (or any)
reputation. Its website, if one exists, may look unprofessional and lack
contact information (e.g., email, postal address, working telephone
number). Impact factor or other journal evaluation criteria may come with
an asterisk indicating that they are “informal estimates” rather than real
data.
nonstandard submission processes: The journal may use a generic (e.g.,
not labeled with a journal or organization’s name) online peer review
system or allow manuscript submission via email.
lack of indexing in databases: The journal and other journals by the
same publisher may not be indexed in PsycINFO or other trusted research
databases. Although inclusion in major research databases is not an
ironclad guarantee of journal or publisher good practice, database
publishers usually have processes in place to evaluate and monitor the
journals they cover. Be sure to search for the title of the journal exactly as
it is provided in the email; some predatory journals have titles deceptively
similar to those of reputable journals.
Reputable journals are usually indexed in research databases.
PsycINFO’s journal coverage list, which includes publisher information, is
publicly available online (https://on.apa.org/2TRvolj).
Despite sharing one or more of these general characteristics, predatory
journals are not identical in their practices. Just as charging publishing fees or
having an open access model are not universal markers of a predatory
journal, the absence of these practices does not guarantee that the journal
abides by high standards of rigor and evaluation. Ultimately, it is the author’s
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 585 ---

responsibility to be diligent and to critically evaluate the standards used by
potential journals.
High-quality periodicals typically have digital object identifiers (DOIs) for
their articles and an ISSN for the periodical (Beaubien & Eckard, 2014). Such
journals usually have a well-defined scope that is aligned with the content of
the articles they publish; clearly described processes for peer review,
correction, and retraction; and an identified publisher and editorial board
composed of individuals who are competent in their fields (Shamseer et al.,
2017). If article processing or publishing fees are levied, these fees are clearly
posted on the journal’s website and are appropriate to cover the services
rendered.
Resources are available to help authors vet journals and discern potentially
predatory ones. For instance, the World Association of Medical Editors
(Laine & Winker, 2017) has published guidance to help editors, researchers,
funders, academics, and other stakeholders distinguish predatory journals
from legitimate ones. Shamseer et al. (2017) used empirical data to develop a
set of evidence-based standards for identifying potentially predatory journals;
these indicators provide a starting point for evaluating journal quality. Both
the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ; https://doaj.org) and the
Quality Open Access Market (QOAM; https://www.qoam.eu) maintain white
lists of reputable open access, peer-reviewed journals. Authors can visit the
Think. Check. Submit. website (https://thinkchecksubmit.org), which
provides a checklist and additional free resources to assist in identifying
trusted journals. The Open Scholarship Initiative (OSI, 2019) also provides
valuable information about predatory or deceptive publishing.
If you have questions or concerns, contact your university librarian, who
can help ensure that the journal you choose is a legitimate one. The most
important step you can take to protect the integrity of your research is to be
diligent in evaluating a potential journal before deciding whether to submit
your article for publication.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 586 ---

Understanding the Editorial Publication Process
12.5 Editorial Publication Process
The editorial publication process begins when an author submits a manuscript
to a journal for consideration. The flowchart in Figure 12.1 describes the
potential paths that the manuscript can take from submission to publication. It
is important to understand this process in context: Scholarly journal articles
are original, primary publications, which means that they have not been
previously published, contribute to the body of scientific knowledge, and
have been reviewed by a panel of peers. Work that has been peer reviewed
and appears in a journal with an ISSN or as a standalone work with an ISBN
is considered published (see Section 1.16 for more on duplicate publication).
Although it is possible to informally publish by posting versions of a paper
online (e.g., on a preprint server), this alone does not constitute publication
(see Section 12.23 for more on sharing your article).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 587 ---

Figure 12.1 Flowchart of Manuscript Progression From Submission to
Publication
The peer-reviewed literature in a field is built by individual contributions
that together represent the accumulated knowledge of the field. To ensure the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 588 ---

quality of each contribution—that the work is original, rigorous, and
significant—scholars in the subspecialties of a field carefully review
submitted manuscripts. By submitting a manuscript to a journal that is peer
reviewed, an author implicitly consents to the circulation and discussion of
the manuscript among the reviewers. During the review process, the
manuscript is considered a confidential and privileged document; however,
publisher policies differ, so check the journal’s manuscript submission
guidelines and instructions to authors (see Sections 1.20 and 1.23 for more on
ethical standards for manuscript reviewers).
12.6 Role of the Editors
Publication decisions for a journal rest in the hands of editors who are
responsible for the quality and content of the journal. Journal editors look for
manuscripts that (a) contribute significantly to the content area covered by
the journal, (b) communicate with clarity and conciseness, and (c) follow the
journal’s style guidelines. Understanding the hierarchy of editors can help
you know what to expect as an author and how to correspond during the
submission and publication process.
The journal lead editor, or editor-in-chief, has final editorial authority on
decisions regarding manuscripts. They are often assisted by associate editors,
who assume responsibility for a specific content area of the journal or for a
portion of the manuscripts submitted to the journal. For some journals, an
associate editor may act as the editor at all stages of consideration of a
manuscript (i.e., as an action editor) and may communicate with authors
regarding acceptance, invited revision, or rejection of a manuscript.
Consulting and advisory editors and ad hoc reviewers review manuscripts
and make recommendations to editors or to associate editors concerning the
disposition of manuscripts. Editors often seek associate, consulting, or
advisory editors to advise them on manuscripts describing methods that are
less familiar to them (e.g., qualitative, mixed methods) and to assist them in
evaluating conflicting reviews in light of the logic of the approaches of
inquiry in use (see Section 3.4). As an author, you should address interim
correspondence to the editor with whom you have been in communication.
However, the lead editor or editor-in-chief may make a decision other than
that recommended by the reviewers or associate editor.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 589 ---

12.7 Peer Review Process
Just as understanding the role of editors helps you know what to expect
during the submission process, so will understanding the peer review process.
Reviewer Role. An action editor usually seeks the assistance of several
reviewers who are scholars in the content area of the submitted manuscript in
arriving at an editorial decision. An action editor may solicit reviews from
particular reviewers for any number of reasons, including familiarity with the
research topic or the methodological approach, familiarity with a particular
controversy, and a desire for a balance of perspectives. If reviewers do not
have the knowledge to competently review a given manuscript, they are
expected to identify these limitations within their review or in communication
with the editor.
Reviewers provide scholarly input into the editorial decision, but the
decision of whether to accept a manuscript for publication ultimately rests
with the action editor or editor-in-chief. Readers interested in learning more
about the peer review process or serving as a reviewer should consult APA’s
online peer review resources (https://on.apa.org/2KCTE6O) and the APA
Reviewer Resource Center (https://on.apa.org/2F6MNn0).
When you submit a manuscript, you may be prompted to provide a list of
potential reviewers along with their contact information (see Section 12.10
for more about online submission to a journal). Consider your choice of
reviewers carefully and with an eye to researchers whose own research is
consistent with the topic of your paper, whose area of study is similar to
yours, and whose work has been cited in your manuscript. You may also
consider potential reviewers’ establishment in the field (e.g., recent graduates
may not have much of a scholarly record, whereas renowned scholars field
many requests to review and may not be available). Editors may not pick all
(or any) of the reviewers you recommend. It is generally considered
inappropriate to suggest reviewers who are colleagues with whom you
directly work because their familiarity with you and your work may bias the
review process, particularly if the journal does not participate in masked
review.
Masked Review. Journal editors, either routinely or at the authors’ request,
may use masked review in which the identities of the authors of a manuscript
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 590 ---

are concealed from reviewers during the review process. Authors’ names are
not revealed to reviewers without the consent of the authors until the review
process is complete. The names of reviewers can also be masked, although a
reviewer may choose to reveal their identity by including their name in the
review itself. Thus, journals can mask review in both directions (both
authors’ and reviewers’ names masked), mask review in one direction (either
authors’ or reviewers’ names masked), or unmask the review (all names
revealed).
Consult the author guidelines to determine whether the journal to which
you are submitting routinely uses masked review or offers masked review to
authors who request it. Authors are responsible for concealing their identities
in manuscripts that will receive masked review; for example, they should
format their manuscripts so their identities as document creators are not
easily revealed and describe the locations of their studies and participants in
general terms (e.g., “students at a small, Midwestern U.S. liberal arts
college”).
Timing of Peer Review. The time required to complete a peer review varies
depending on the length and complexity of the manuscript and the number of
reviewers asked to evaluate it. If the journal editor determines that the
manuscript is within the purview of the journal and has no major flaws or
limitations (e.g., an article that exceeds prescribed page limits often is not
considered for publication until revised), they will send it either directly to
reviewers or to an associate editor who then serves as the action editor.
Associate editors, on the basis of the reviews received, then make a
recommendation to the journal editor. It is extremely rare that editors accept a
paper for publication without formal peer review; exceptions might include
an introduction to a special section or an editorial.
In general, the review process takes approximately 2 to 3 months, during
which authors can typically view the status of their manuscript (e.g., with the
editor, sent out to reviewers) through the journal’s manuscript submission
portal. After that time, authors can expect to be notified about a decision on
their manuscript. It would be appropriate for an author to contact the editor if
no communication regarding a decision has been received after more than 3
months.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 591 ---

12.8 Manuscript Decisions
Reviewers provide the editor with evaluations of a manuscript on the basis of
their assessment of the scholarly quality of the manuscript, the importance of
the contribution the work might provide, and the appropriateness of the work
for the particular journal. The decision to accept a manuscript, to invite a
revision, or to reject it is the responsibility of the editor; the editor’s decision
may differ from the recommendation of any or all of the reviewers.
Acceptance. Once a manuscript is accepted, it enters the production phase of
publication, in which it is copyedited and typeset. During this phase, authors
may not make significant changes to content (e.g., adding a new section of
analysis or a table) other than those recommended by the copyeditor. Authors
are responsible for the completion of all associated paperwork (e.g., signing
copyright transfers, submitting disclosures, securing permissions for any
reprinted or adapted tables and figures). Failure to complete all required
paperwork may result in retraction of the acceptance of a manuscript. After
the manuscript is typeset, authors receive proofs that they are encouraged to
review for typesetting errors and to which they can make minor revisions (see
Section 12.19 for more on reviewing article proofs).
Invitation to Revise and Resubmit. Manuscripts that are evaluated to have
potential for eventual publication in the journal but that are not yet ready for
final acceptance receive an invitation to revise and resubmit. Manuscripts in
this category range from those that the editor has judged to need substantial
reworking (including the possibility that additional empirical data need to be
gathered, that entirely new experiments need to be added, that analyses need
to be modified, or that the manuscript needs to be significantly shortened) to
those that need only a small number of specific modifications. Some journals
use a category called conditional acceptance for this latter level of revision; in
this case, the editor indicates that the article will be published in the journal
pending completion of specified changes. Invitation to revise and resubmit
does not guarantee eventual publication of the paper by that journal. In
addition, the invitation may be time bound; it may not extend past a
designated date or across changes in editors.
Most manuscripts need to be revised, and some manuscripts need to be
revised more than once (revision does not guarantee acceptance). Revisions
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 592 ---

to a manuscript may reveal to the author or to the editor and reviewers
deficiencies that were not apparent in the original manuscript, and the editor
may request further revision to correct those deficiencies. During the review
process, an editor may ask an author to supply material that supplements the
manuscript (e.g., raw data, complex statistical tables, instructions to
participants). As the manuscript moves through the review process, editors
are free to solicit reviews from reviewers who were not among the initial set
of reviewers. Additional reviewers might be selected if their expertise is
needed or if a previous reviewer is no longer available.
If the editor returns a manuscript to the author for revision, the editor
explains why the revisions are required. The editor does not have to provide
the reviewers’ comments to the author but frequently chooses to do so.
Editors do not undertake major editorial revision of a manuscript. Authors are
expected to attend to editors’ and reviewers’ recommendations for revision;
however, the content and style of the article remain the sole responsibility of
the authors.
Authors should respond to reviewers’ recommendations thoughtfully and
judiciously. Frequently, authors are required to resubmit a version of their
original manuscript with tracked changes that reflect revisions made on the
basis of reviewer feedback. When resubmitting a revised manuscript, authors
are also encouraged to enclose a cover letter thanking editors and reviewers
for their feedback, accompanied by a document explaining how they have
responded to all of the reviewers’ comments (regardless of whether they
agreed or disagreed with the comments). Often referred to as a response to
reviewers, this file specifies how the authors addressed each critique made by
a reviewer (e.g., by adding text or data) and where the revision can be found
in the revised manuscript. Authors are not required to make every change
suggested by a reviewer, but the response should explain the rationale behind
the authors’ decisions, including decisions not to make a change. Providing a
response to reviewers facilitates the timeliness of the review process by
reducing the number of follow-up questions and ultimately helps the editor
decide whether to publish the article. For a sample response to reviewers, see
the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org).
Some journals offer authors the opportunity to revise their paper into a
brief report; the journal’s policies will indicate whether this option exists. For
such journals, authors may also submit a brief report initially. Articles of this
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 593 ---

type generally describe a study of limited scope, contain novel or provocative
findings that need further replication, or represent replications and extensions
of prior published work. Research published in this format generally cannot
be resubmitted as a longer research article somewhere else (see Section 1.16
on duplicate publication).
Rejection. A manuscript is usually rejected because the work (a) is seen as
falling outside the coverage domain of the journal; (b) contains such severe
flaws of design, methodology, analysis, or interpretation that the editor
questions the validity of the findings; or (c) is judged as making a limited
contribution to the field, given the standards of the journal. At times, editors
reject good manuscripts simply because they lack the space to publish all of
the high-quality manuscripts that are submitted to the journal.
Editors may desk reject a manuscript outright—that is, after an initial
review but before review by an associate editor or by reviewers—in two
cases. The first is when the editor determines that the manuscript is not
appropriate for the specific journal because either the content or the format is
not in keeping with the journal’s mission. The second is when the editor
determines that it is unlikely that the paper will be evaluated favorably during
the peer review process. Both decisions allow for a more efficient and
effective review process. Similarly, an editorial reject might occur when
initial review of the manuscript reveals formatting flaws such as exceeding
the prescribed page limits.
A manuscript that has been rejected by a journal may not be revised and
resubmitted to that same journal without invitation from the editor. If a
manuscript is rejected on the basis of the peer review, the editor explains why
it was rejected and may provide feedback from the reviewers. Authors who
believe a pertinent point was overlooked or misunderstood by the reviewers
may contact the editor to appeal the decision. Those who feel that their
manuscript was unfairly rejected should consult the journal or publisher
website regarding the appeals process. Authors are free to submit the rejected
manuscript to another journal. Reviewers may provide feedback that authors
find useful when revising their manuscript; authors should give careful
attention to these comments and suggestions from peers and incorporate them
to improve the scientific rigor and overall quality of the paper.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 594 ---

Manuscript Preparation
12.9 Preparing the Manuscript for Submission
This section summarizes the steps to follow in preparing a manuscript for
submission to a journal. First, follow APA Style guidelines as described in
this manual when formatting and writing the paper. In particular, consult
Chapter 3 to become acquainted with the reporting standards for the type of
research you have conducted. Also, check whether the journal to which you
are submitting your manuscript has a checklist or specific guidelines for
manuscript submission. Manuscript preparation and submission guidelines
for APA journals can be found on the APA website
(https://on.apa.org/2E0FPOT).
Many publishers, including APA, offer a suite of author services and
support that provide help with writing, translation, figure creation, and so
forth. Authors are encouraged to use these services to ensure that the
manuscript they submit to the publisher is in the best form possible. These
guidelines and services are continually updated; authors should follow the
most current guidelines for the publisher to which they are submitting their
work (for APA journals, see the Journal Manuscript Preparation Guidelines at
https://on.apa.org/2P01l9j).
12.10 Using an Online Submission Portal
You will most likely submit your article electronically through an online
manuscript submission portal. For APA journals, each journal has its own
submission portal accessed via its website. Review the instructions for using
the submission portal and understand the format for saving all files before
beginning the submission process. Guidance on navigating the Editorial
Manager system used by all APA journals can be found on the APA website
(https://on.apa.org/2FLydBA).
Upon submission of your manuscript, you will be asked to upload at least
two files—a manuscript file and a cover letter. Additional files may be
needed depending on the publisher’s requirements.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 595 ---

Manuscript File. The manuscript file consists of your manuscript, including
the title page, abstract, text (body), and reference list, as well as tables and
figures, footnotes, and appendices, if applicable. Whereas some journals
accept all sections as a single file, others require authors to upload separate
files (e.g., the title page in a separate file for masked review, all figures in
separate files).
If you are submitting supplemental materials with your manuscript, check
the journal’s website to determine the preferred format (see Section 2.15).
Keep in mind that if your manuscript is accepted, your supplemental
materials most likely will not be copyedited and thus will be made available
to readers in the exact format in which you submit them. Be sure to review all
supplemental materials carefully for content and proper format prior to
submission.
Cover Letter File. Authors often must submit a cover letter as a separate file
to accompany their manuscript. Check the journal’s website for the current
editor’s name and for specific instructions on submission. See Section 12.11
for guidance on what to include in the cover letter to the journal editor.
Additional Information. Finally, you may need to supply additional
information via the submission portal, including the following:
article title and abstract
byline, affiliation, contact information, and order of authors
article word count or page count
number of tables and figures
keywords
names of potential reviewers (see Section 12.7)
Requirements for additional information are specific to each journal and
publisher. Follow instructions as prompted by the manuscript submission
portal to ensure that you enter or upload all the requested information.
12.11 Writing a Cover Letter
When writing a cover letter requesting consideration of your manuscript for
publication, include the information requested by the journal. Cover letters
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 596 ---

often include the following:
specific details about the manuscript (e.g., title and authors)
assurances that all authors agree with the content of the manuscript and
with the order of authorship (see Sections 1.21–1.22)
assurances that the corresponding author will take responsibility for
informing coauthors in a timely manner of editorial decisions, reviews
received, changes made in response to editorial review, and content of
revisions (if the manuscript is accepted, all the authors will need to certify
authorship)
information about the existence of any closely related manuscripts that
have been submitted for simultaneous consideration to the same or to
another journal (see Section 1.16 on piecemeal publication and
exceptions)
notice of any conflicts of interest or activities that might be seen as
influencing the research (e.g., financial interests in a test or procedure,
funding by a pharmaceutical company for drug research)
a request for masked review, if that is an option for the journal and you
choose to use it (see Section 12.7)
verification that the treatment of human participants or nonhuman animal
subjects was in accordance with established ethical standards (see
Sections 1.18 and 12.13)
a copy of any permissions granted to reproduce copyrighted material or a
notice that permissions are pending (see Sections 12.14–12.18; the
publisher must have copies of all granted permissions before your work
can be published)
the telephone number, email address, and mailing address of the
corresponding author for future correspondence
Some journals have an author agreement checklist that authors must submit
along with or in lieu of a cover letter. Check the specific policies of the
journal to which you are submitting your manuscript and follow those
policies. Nonadherence to submission instructions can delay the review
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 597 ---

process. For sample cover letters, see the APA Style website
(https://apastyle.apa.org).
12.12 Corresponding During Publication
While a manuscript is under consideration, it is the responsibility of the
authors to inform the editor of any substantive corrections needed, any
changes in contact information, and so forth. In all correspondence during the
publication process, include the complete manuscript title, the authors’
names, and the manuscript number (assigned when the manuscript was first
received). Any author may correspond with the editor or editorial staff during
the submission and publication process. Most often, however,
correspondence is handled by the corresponding author.
Following publication, the corresponding author serves as the main point
of contact and responds to questions about the published article. All authors
should decide prior to submission who will serve as the corresponding
author. Although any author can serve as the corresponding author, the
corresponding author often has taken the lead in executing a study or heads
the lab in which the data were collected. See Section 2.7 for how to present
the corresponding author’s information in the author note.
12.13 Certifying Ethical Requirements
In Chapter 1 (Sections 1.11 and 1.18), we noted that authors are responsible
for demonstrating that they have complied with the ethical standards that
govern both the conduct of research and its scholarly publication (see
Standard 8, Research and Publication, of the APA Ethics Code; APA, 2017a).
When you submit a manuscript to a journal, you may be asked to provide
proof of compliance with these standards. You are also expected to comply
with legal standards of fair use when reprinting or adapting the work of
others and to comply with the publication policies established by the journal
publisher. The forms APA requires for journal publication and the
instructions for the forms can be found on the APA website
(https://on.apa.org/2zuMDk2).
Ethical Compliance. When you submit your manuscript, you may be asked
to verify that you have complied with ethical standards in the conduct of your
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 598 ---

research. This includes whether your study has been evaluated and approved
by an institutional review board (IRB) or an institutional animal care and use
committee (IACUC), if such approval is required. Authors conducting
research outside the United States should describe the process of ethical
review their study underwent if it differs from an IRB evaluation. Authors
submitting to APA journals are also required to submit the Certificate of
Compliance With APA Ethical Principles Form
(https://on.apa.org/2NrGSsY) if the research included human participants or
nonhuman animal subjects.
Conflict of Interest. As discussed in Chapter 1 (Section 1.20), authors must
disclose activities and relationships that, if known to others, might be viewed
as potential conflicts of interest—for example, financial agreements or
affiliations with or potential bias against any product or service used or
discussed in the paper. Authors with no known conflict of interest must state
this explicitly. Such disclosures should appear in the author note (see Section
2.7). For APA journals, all authors are required to submit the Full Disclosure
of Interests Form (https://on.apa.org/2E0FlIr). For more information on
conflicts of interest and ethical principles in research, please see APA Ethics
Code Standard 3.06, Conflict of Interest.
Plagiarism Detection. Most publishers, including APA, now routinely
submit manuscripts to plagiarism detection software that compares the
submitted work against millions of scholarly documents as well as content
appearing on the open web. This allows journal editors to check submissions
for potential overlap with previously published material and to evaluate
whether the overlap is reasonable or problematic. See Sections 1.17, 8.2, and
8.3 for further information on plagiarism and self-plagiarism.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 599 ---

Copyright and Permission Guidelines
12.14 General Guidelines for Reprinting or Adapting Materials
Most of the time, authors need to provide only an author–date in-text citation
and a reference list entry to properly credit the words or ideas of other authors
(see Chapters 8–11). However, according to U.S. copyright law, reprinting or
adapting certain kinds of works (e.g., figures published in journal articles,
images from websites, lengthy quotations) requires a more comprehensive
acknowledgment of the copyright status of the reprinted or adapted work in
the form of a copyright attribution, a brief statement providing details of the
original work and naming the copyright holder (see Section 12.18 for
formatting guidance).
Reprinting means reproducing material exactly as it appeared originally,
without modifications, in the way in which it was intended. Adapting refers
to modifying material so that it is suitable for a new purpose (e.g., using part
of a table or figure in a new table or figure in your paper). A copyright
attribution is used instead of an author–date in-text citation to credit these
works; each work also should appear in the reference list. For a subset of
cases (see Section 12.17), authors need to seek and obtain explicit written
permission from the copyright holder to reprint or adapt the material, a
process that can take substantial time and comes with no guarantee that the
copyright holder will consent to the use. Because these policies are a matter
of law, not specifically of APA Style, all writers—even students whose work
will not be formally published—should follow them.
The remainder of this section guides authors through the process of
understanding what types of material require a copyright attribution;
identifying the copyright status of the material and understanding its
implications for the intended use;
determining whether permission is necessary to reproduce the material on
the basis of its copyright status and the legal concept of fair use;
securing permission (if necessary) to reproduce the material; and
writing the copyright attribution in APA Style.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 600 ---

12.15 Materials That Require a Copyright Attribution
The following are examples of materials that authors often want to reprint or
adapt that may require a copyright attribution; they may also require
permission (see Section 12.17). Other materials may also require a copyright
attribution and permission before they can be reprinted or adapted, such as
songs, poetry, and art.
figures, tables, and other images: Most types of visual displays require a
copyright attribution to reprint or adapt, including tables and figures
published in journal articles, books, reports, webpages and websites, and
other works, as well as images from the internet such as illustrations,
infographics, photographs, screenshots, and most clip art. Depending on
the work’s place of publication and copyright status, permission may or
may not be required. Copyright ownership and permission status can be
particularly difficult to establish for images downloaded from the internet,
but journals cannot publish them without full documentation. There is no
need to seek permission or to write a copyright attribution for images
taken from a database whose purpose is the open dissemination of stimuli
for academic research (e.g., the International Affective Picture System);
for these, an author–date citation suffices.
data: Published or unpublished data from another source require a
copyright attribution and permission to directly reproduce. Data that have
been reconfigured or reanalyzed to produce different numbers do not
require permission or a copyright attribution; cite these data with a regular
author–date citation instead (see Section 10.9).
test and scale items, questionnaires, vignettes, and so forth: Items
reprinted or adapted from copyrighted and commercially available tests or
scales (e.g., Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory–2, Wechsler
Adult Intelligence Scale, Stanford–Binet Intelligence Scales) require a
copyright attribution and permission. Obtaining these permissions can be
difficult and time consuming, and a preferable alternative to reproducing
the exact items in your manuscript may be to instead reword or paraphrase
those items. Permission is required, and may be denied, to reproduce even
one item from such instruments. Furthermore, many test and scale
developers ask authors to submit a request (typically through their website
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 601 ---

or email) to use their measure prior to the authors administering it to
participants in their study and to inform them of any publications that may
result from its use. Likewise, the developers should be consulted before
you make any changes to a measure (e.g., adaptations for different age
groups, translation of specific items). Authors should also consider
whether reprinting or adapting test materials could threaten the materials’
integrity and security, as described in APA Ethics Code Standard 9.11,
Maintaining Test Security.
long quotations: Although most quotations taken from a published work
need only an author–date citation, you should seek permission and
provide a copyright attribution to reproduce a long quotation, the
definition of which varies by copyright holder. It is the author’s
responsibility to determine the policy of each copyright holder; large
publishers usually provide their permission policies on their websites. For
APA’s policy, see Section 12.17.
Two special cases of material with copyright requirements are commercial
stock photography and clip art. If you find photos, clip art, and other images
via an online search engine, the guidelines in this section apply to those
search results, too.
commercial stock photography: Unless a stock image has a Creative
Commons license (see Section 12.16) or is in the public domain, it is not
permissible to reproduce it without purchasing a license from the vendor.
Commonly used vendors of stock images are Getty Images, Shutterstock,
and iStock. A license usually allows the license holder to reproduce the
image without a copyright attribution; however, without your own license,
you cannot reproduce the image.
clip art: Most clip art does not require permission to reproduce, but it
may require a copyright attribution. For clip art included with a computer
program (e.g., Microsoft Word), purchase of the program provides a
license for that clip art, and you can use it in an academic paper or
scholarly article without a copyright attribution or author–date citation. If
the clip art comes from a free clip art website, check the copyright status
of the image to determine whether a copyright attribution or citation is
needed (see Section 12.16). See Example 98 in Chapter 10 for a reference
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 602 ---

list entry for clip art when a reference is needed.
12.16 Copyright Status
The copyright status of a work determines how you are allowed to use it in
your own paper. Copyright is usually indicated on the first page of an article,
on the copyright page of a book or report, below an image published online,
or in the footer of a website.
The following are some common copyright statuses:
standard copyright: Copyright is often indicated simply by the word
“copyright” or the copyright symbol.
Copyright 2020 by the American Psychological Association.
© 2018 Bianca T. Burquest, all rights reserved.
Sometimes determining who holds a copyright can be a challenge,
particularly for older works, because publishers may merge and
copyrights may change hands. Materials described in Section 12.15
require a copyright attribution, and permission may be required as well.
Creative Commons copyright: Creative Commons licenses are indicated
by “Creative Commons” or “CC.” Most Creative Commons licenses
allow you to reprint and/or adapt a work (including images) without
permission from the copyright holder as long as you give credit to the
original author in the form of a copyright attribution, note the license type,
and indicate whether you have adapted the original. The specific terms of
Creative Commons licenses vary, so check the license associated with the
work you want to reproduce to determine what you are allowed to do and
what specific copyright attributions, if any, are required.
public domain: Works that are not bound by copyright are considered to
be in the public domain. This means that you can reprint them and/or
adapt them however you want, so long as you credit the original author in
the form of a copyright attribution. Assume that a work is under copyright
unless you see the words “public domain” on it or the work was produced
by the U.S. government (in which case it is automatically in the public
domain). Although copyright does expire with time—meaning that works
that were once copyrighted may now be in the public domain—the laws
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 603 ---

governing this process are complex and vary by country; consult a
librarian if you have questions regarding expired copyrights.
no copyright indicated: If no copyright is indicated, treat the material as
copyrighted. U.S. copyright law states that a work is copyrighted as soon
as it is fixed in tangible form (e.g., when you can see it on a computer
screen or on paper), even if the work does not have the word “copyright”
or the copyright symbol on it, and even if it is not widely distributed or
professionally published. For example, students automatically own the
copyright to their classroom assignments.
12.17 Permission and Fair Use
Determining Whether Permission Is Necessary. Permission is not required
to reprint or adapt a work (see Section 12.15 for examples) when it has a
Creative Commons license or is in the public domain; however, a copyright
attribution is still required in most cases. For works that are copyrighted (or
for which the copyright status is unknown), permission is not always required
to reprint or adapt the work. The nature of the original publication (i.e., an
academic work vs. a commercial publication) and the concept of fair use
govern whether permission is needed.
Scholarly Works. The journal publisher typically owns the copyright on
material published in its journals. Many scientific, technical, and medical
publishers (including APA) do not require written permission or fees to
reproduce content under the following circumstances:
The purpose of the use is scholarly comment, noncommercial research, or
educational.
Full credit is given to the author and the publisher as copyright holders
through a complete and accurate copyright attribution.
A maximum total of three figures or tables are being reprinted or adapted
from a journal article or book chapter.
Single text extracts being reprinted are fewer than 400 words, or a series
of text extracts being reprinted totals fewer than 800 words. For
quotations under these thresholds, use an author–date citation (permission
and copyright attributions are not required).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 604 ---

All publishers have their own permission policies, which may differ from
guidelines provided here and may cover cases not described in this section
(e.g., reproducing whole articles or chapters). Check with the publisher of the
material to determine whether permission is necessary.
Fair Use. You may be able to reprint or adapt a copyrighted work as
described in Section 12.15 without permission if your use is considered
“fair.” Fair use is a loosely defined and complex legal concept (for a
summary, see U.S. Copyright Office, 2019) but, in general, means that under
certain circumstances it is permissible to reprint or adapt a copyrighted table,
figure, image, test item, questionnaire, or long quotation without obtaining
permission as long as you credit the work with a copyright attribution. If in
doubt, check with the copyright holder to determine what they consider fair
use, especially for items from measures, questionnaires, scales, tests, or
instruments. However, the use is probably fair if it meets the following
criteria:
It is for use in an academic work and not for profit (e.g., paper for a class,
article in a scholarly journal).
It represents facts or data (e.g., a chart or diagram) rather than creative
self-expression (e.g., artwork, although some famous works of art are in
the public domain and thus do not require permission).
It is small in relation to the entire work (e.g., a chart within a report) and
not the whole work or the heart of the work (e.g., a whole cartoon).
Reproducing the work will not hurt the market or potential market for the
original.
Permission for Photographs of Identifiable People. If you photographed a
person who is identifiable in the photograph, you must submit a signed
release from that person for the photograph to be published. The release
should specify that both electronic and print permissions are granted. This is
not a matter of copyright but rather of permission from the individual to have
their likeness reproduced. It is not necessary to mention the release in the
paper or to write a copyright attribution for such a photograph. No release is
necessary if the photograph is of one of the authors of the paper.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 605 ---

Securing Permission. When permission is required, you must request
permission to reproduce the material in all formats (e.g., both print and
electronic) from the copyright holder. Permission extends in some cases to all
subsequent editions and to foreign-language editions as well. Permission
policies vary among organizations; always check with the publisher about
whether permission is required for subsequent or foreign-language editions of
a publication.
Many publishers provide a way for authors to request permission on their
websites (e.g., to request permission to reprint or adapt material published by
APA, see https://on.apa.org/2Aswon8). Permission can also be secured via
email, fax, or mail. The permission request should specify the details about
the material (e.g., title of the work, year of publication, page number) and the
nature of the reuse (e.g., in a journal article). Some publishers also require
that you obtain permission from the author of the original work. Publishers
normally grant permission contingent on the inclusion of a copyright
attribution and payment of a fee per table, figure, or page.
Allow ample time (several weeks) to secure permission. Once permission
is granted, you need to
obtain that permission in writing;
include copies of permission letters with the accepted manuscript (if
submitting for publication; otherwise, provide them when submitting an
assignment);
complete the Permissions Alert Form for APA Journal Authors (if
publishing in an APA journal); and
include a copyright attribution in the manuscript, following the wording
and format described in Section 12.18 or specific wording provided by the
copyright holder.
Most publishers will not allow your manuscript to enter the production stage
until all print and electronic permissions are secured and documentation has
been provided.
12.18 Copyright Attribution Formats
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 606 ---

An APA Style copyright attribution contains information from the reference
list entry of the work, but in a different order than in the reference entry, and
with additional information about the material’s copyright and permission
status. To write a copyright attribution,
state whether the material was reprinted or adapted (use “From” for
reprintings and “Adapted from” for adaptations);
provide the title, author, year of publication, and source of the material;
indicate the material’s copyright status, which will be the copyright year
and the name of the copyright holder, a statement that the work is licensed
in the Creative Commons, or a statement that the work is in the public
domain; and
provide the permission statement as requested by the copyright holder if
permission was sought and obtained.
Place the copyright attribution as follows:
For a reprinted or adapted table, figure, or other image (including
reproduced [but not reanalyzed] data in a table), place the copyright
attribution at the end of the general note for the table or figure (see
Sections 7.14 and 7.28).
For reproduced test items, questionnaires, or long quotations, place the
copyright attribution in a footnote to the reproduced text (see Section
2.13).
See Table 12.1 for copyright attribution templates and Table 12.2 for
examples. See Chapter 7 for examples in context, including
an adapted table that does not require permission (Table 7.14 in Section
7.21),
a reprinted figure that does not require permission (Figure 7.3 in Section
7.36),
a reprinted figure in the public domain (Figure 7.14 in Section 7.36), and
a figure reproduced with permission (Figure 7.21 in Section 7.36).
Table 12.1 Copyright Attribution Templates
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 607 ---

Sourcea
Reprinted
or
adapted
status Source information
Copyright
status
Permission
statementb
Journal,
magazine,
newspaper,
or blog
From
or
Adapted
from
“Title of Article,” by A. A. Author and B. B.
Author, year, Title of Periodical,
Volume(Issue), p. xx (DOI or URL). Copyright
year by
Name of
Copyright
Holder.
or
In the
public
domain.
or
CC BY-
NC.c
Reprinted
with
permission.
or
Adapted
with
permission.
Authored
book or
report
Title of Book or Report (p. xx), by A. A.
Author and B. B. Author, year, Publisher (DOI
or URL).
Edited
book
chapter
“Title of Chapter,” by A. A. Author and B. B.
Author, in E. E. Editor and F. F. Editor (Eds.),
Title of Book (any edition or volume number,
p. xx), year, Publisher (DOI or URL).
Webpage
or website
Title of Webpage, by A. A. Author and B. B.
Author, year, Site Name (DOI or URL).
or
Title of Webpage, by Group Author Same as
Site Name, year (DOI or URL).d
a For works not listed here, provide the title, author, year, and source information for the work as appropriate. b
Include a permission statement only if permission has been sought and obtained. c For Creative Commons licenses
(e.g., CC BY-NC, CC BY 4.0), use the specified abbreviation for the type of license associated with the material you
are reprinting or adapting; “CC BY-NC” is just one example. d For webpages or websites, omit the site name when
the site name and author are the same, which is often the case with group authors.
Table 12.2 Example Copyright Attributions for Reprinted or Adapted Tables and Figures
Work from
which the table
or figure was
reproduced Example copyright attribution
Journal article,
if copyrighted
and if no
permission
needed
From “Romantic Relationship Development: The Interplay Between Age and
Relationship Length,” by A. Lantagne and W. Furman, 2017, Developmental
Psychology, 53(9), p. 1744 (https://doi.org/10.1037/dev0000363). Copyright 2017 by
the American Psychological Association.
Journal article,
if Creative
Commons
license
Adapted from “Comprehensive Overview of Computer-Based Health Information
Tailoring: A Systematic Scoping Review,” by A. K. Ghalibaf, E. Nazari, M. Gholian-
Aval, and M. Tara, 2019, BMJ Open, 9, p. 6 (https://doi.org/cz6h). CC BY-NC.
Whole book, if
copyrighted
and if no
permission
needed
Adapted from Managing Therapy-Interfering Behavior: Strategies From Dialectical
Behavior Therapy (p. 172), by A. L. Chapman and M. Z. Rosenthal, 2016, American
Psychological Association (https://doi.org/10.1037/14752-000). Copyright 2016 by the
American Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 608 ---

Edited book
chapter, if
copyrighted
and if
permission
needed
From “Pharmacokinetics,” by V. Yellepeddi, in K. Whalen (Ed.), Pharmacology (6th
ed., p. 2), 2015, Wolters Kluwer. Copyright 2015 by Wolters Kluwer. Reprinted with
permission.
Webpage or
website, if in
the public
domain
From What Parents Can Expect in Behavior Therapy, by Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, 2017 (https://www.cdc.gov/ncbddd/adhd/infographics/what-parents-
expect.html). In the public domain.
Data from the
U.S. Census
Bureau, in the
public domain
Data are from “Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for the United States,
Regions, States, and Puerto Rico: April 1, 2010 to July 1, 2018 (NST-EST2018-01),”
by the U.S. Census Bureau, 2018 (http://bit.ly/2v0bucA). In the public domain.
Note. This table shows examples of copyright attributions you would include when reprinting or adapting a table or
figure from another work in an academic paper. Place the copyright attribution for a reprinted or adapted table or
figure at the end of the table or figure general note (see, e.g., Table 7.14 and Figure 7.3). See Sections 12.14 to
12.18 to determine when a copyright attribution (and possibly also permission) is necessary. You may need to use
different wording than shown here depending on the requirements of the copyright holder.
When you use a copyright attribution, also provide a reference list entry for
the work. However, the copyright attribution is used instead of an in-text
citation; it is not necessary to include both.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 609 ---

During and After Publication
12.19 Article Proofs
After your manuscript has been accepted, but prior to its publication, you will
be contacted by the journal’s editorial staff to review the article proofs.
Proofs are usually handled via an annotation website. Through the site, you
will be able to make changes or annotations directly to the proofs to correct
minor style or formatting errors. It is also where you will receive and be
asked to respond to specific questions posed by copyeditors or editorial staff.
Keep in mind that the proof stage is your last chance to change your article.
This is not, however, the time to rewrite text or to add new analyses,
citations, or interpretation. Any major revisions to the text or analyses made
in the proofs may require review by the editor.
Review the proofs carefully. Be alert for changes in meaning that may
have inadvertently occurred during copyediting, and be attentive to levels of
heading and formatting of statistics, equations, tables, and so forth.
Copyeditors correct errors, ensure consistency of style, and clarify
expression; you should compare the proofs with your original manuscript to
confirm that any changes are consistent with the meaning you intended to
convey. Limit changes to fixing spelling or grammar, correcting copyediting
or typesetting errors, and updating references (e.g., to update in-press
citations, to fix DOIs and URLs that no longer work). If you request changes,
be explicit, because the typesetter will have only your written instructions to
work from and thus will need clear direction to implement the changes
correctly. In addition, be sure to check the following:
Have you answered all copyeditor queries fully?
Are author names and affiliations correct and consistent with prior
publications?
Is the hierarchy of headings and subheadings correct?
Are all numbers and symbols in text, tables, and mathematical and
statistical copy correct?
Are tables correct? Are all columns aligned as expected, and do
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 610 ---

superscripts correspond to table notes? Are all table notes correct?
Are figures correct? Are labels properly spelled? Do symbols in the
legend match those in the figure? Are photographs reproduced
successfully? Are all figure notes correct?
If coauthors participate in reviewing the proofs, the corresponding author is
responsible for consolidating necessary changes and incorporating them into
the proofs. It is important to submit your requested changes to the publisher
within the established deadline so that publication of your article is not
delayed.
Once you have submitted all proof corrections to the production office,
your article will soon be made available. Often, publishers publish the final,
typeset article online first, referred to as advance online publication, with the
print version to follow (see Section 8.5). This is the point of official
publication, and your article may now be discovered and cited.
12.20 Published Article Copyright Policies
Until publication, the copyright of a manuscript belongs to the author(s). At
publication, however, it is common for the copyright of the work to change.
Two of the most common scenarios are transfer of copyright to the publisher
and entry into the public domain.
Transfer of Copyright to the Publisher. When a manuscript is accepted for
publication, authors typically transfer copyright of their manuscript to the
publisher. By transferring copyright, authors permit publishers to (a) widely
distribute the article, (b) monitor and control republication of the article (in
whole or in part) by others, and (c) handle the paperwork involved in
copyright registration and administration. The publisher in turn represents the
authors’ interests and permits authors to freely reuse their own article (in
whole or in part) in several ways. By law, publishers own the copyright on
their journal articles for 95 years from the time of publication. The copyright
transfer includes both print and electronic rights to the article to allow the
publisher to disseminate the work as broadly as possible. APA journals use
the APA Publications Rights Form (see https://on.apa.org/32psDvX) to
complete the transfer of copyright.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 611 ---

Public Domain Copyright for Employees of the U.S. Government. If the
primary authors are employees of the U.S. government and its departments
(e.g., Veterans Affairs) and the work was performed within the scope of their
employment, the work is considered in the public domain (i.e., not
copyrighted by the authors or publisher; see Section 12.16). In the case of
work performed under U.S. government contract, the publisher may retain the
copyright (meaning it is not in the public domain) but grant the U.S.
government royalty-free permission to reproduce all or portions of the article
and authorize others to do so for U.S. government purposes; authors who
want to reprint or adapt material from such a work should provide a copyright
attribution and determine whether permission is necessary. APA journals use
the APA Publications Rights Form (see https://on.apa.org/32psDvX) to
document when work has been produced by employees of the U.S.
government.
12.21 Open Access Deposit Policies
Many funders and institutions around the world mandate that the work they
sponsor be made freely available—or deposited in open access repositories—
to the public upon publication, the idea being that sponsored research
findings should be in the public domain to accelerate human progress. In
practice, open access can take several forms, and funders and institutions
outline the format(s) they accept or require. For example, some require a
prepublication copy of the final manuscript as accepted for publication to be
posted to a designated repository. Others require that the final journal article
be made freely available immediately upon publication—rather than limited
by journal subscription access—with minimal or no barriers to reuse (i.e.,
readers can disseminate and build on open access work without the traditional
constraints of copyright on academic publications). Publishers usually
support the open access publication model through article processing charges
paid by the authors using funder or institutional resources designated for this
purpose.
As you decide where to submit your article, check your funder and
institutional guidelines on open access and compare these to the options
supported by different publishers. If you are considering an open access APA
journal, consult the APA Journals website (https://on.apa.org/2vJ3oGq).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 612 ---

12.22 Writing a Correction Notice
As described in Section 1.13, errors sometimes occur in published journal
articles. If you detect an error in your published article (including the advance
online publication) and think that a correction is warranted, submit a
correction notice to the journal editor and publisher. A formal correction tells
readers (a) exactly what the error was, (b) what the correct information is,
and (c) whether some or all versions of the original article have been
corrected (i.e., no longer contain the error). Because it is not the purpose of
corrections to place blame for mistakes, correction notices do not identify the
source of the error (e.g., unintentional oversight, mathematical errors).
It is not necessary to formally correct every error found in a published
article. Minor typographical errors do not need to be called out as part of the
public record of science. The following are examples of errors that need
formal, public correction:
adding an author or rearranging the order of authorship
completely changing the affiliation (e.g., because the affiliation on the
published work does not reflect where the author worked when the study
was conducted)
replacing an entry in the reference list with a completely different
reference
altering the data in a way that may or may not change the significance of
the results
substituting one word for another or rewriting a sentence or paragraph in a
way that substantially impacts the meaning
A correction notice should contain the following:
journal title and year, volume number, issue number, DOI, and inclusive
page numbers of the article being corrected (as applicable)
complete article title and names of all authors, exactly as they appear in
the published article
precise location of the error (e.g., page, column, line)
an exact quotation of the error or, in the case of a lengthy error or an error
in a table or figure, an accurate paraphrasing of the error
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 613 ---

a concise, unambiguous wording of the correction or, in the case of an
error in a table or figure, a replacement version of the table or figure
Once the proposed correction has been reviewed by the editor and publisher,
a decision is made to either move forward with a correction notice or leave
the error within the published article as is. When a correction is approved, the
publisher uses the information provided by the author to compile the
correction notice in an official template. Correction notices are usually
published with a DOI, like published articles, and appear in print and online.
If the article being corrected has already appeared in print, the correction
notice is published in the next available issue of the journal. If the article
being corrected has not yet appeared in print, the correction notice is
published within the same issue as the article. If the article being corrected
has been published only online and will remain so after the next issue of the
journal, an online version of the correction notice is published to amend the
article while the article and correction notice await placement in a print issue.
See the APA Style website for sample correction notices
(https://apastyle.apa.org).
12.23 Sharing Your Article Online
Certain rights are linked to copyright ownership, including the exclusive right
to reproduce and distribute the copyrighted work. Journals are committed to
publishing original scholarship and distributing peer-reviewed articles, in
both print and electronic formats, that serve as the version of record. Thus,
many publishers have policies delineating the terms under which authors may
post an article on the internet.
Many publishers, including APA, allow authors to post a version of their
manuscript online—for example, in a preprint archive or repository such as
PsyArXiv, in an electronic archive such as ERIC, in an institutional archive,
on a personal website, on their employer’s server, in their institution’s
repository, in a reference manager such as Mendeley, and on an author’s
social network. However, a number of conditions apply. For example, usually
the manuscript must be a prepublication copy of the final manuscript
accepted for publication, not the final typeset version. Additionally, the
posted prepublication copy of the manuscript must carry a copyright notice
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 614 ---

and include a link to the final article on the publisher’s website using the
article’s DOI. For articles published in APA journals, use the following
statement:
© American Psychological Association, [Year]. This paper is not the copy of
record and may not exactly replicate the authoritative document published in
the APA journal. Please do not copy or cite without the author’s permission.
The final article is available, upon publication, at https://doi.org/[Article DOI]
APA’s guidelines for internet posting are available on the APA website
(https://on.apa.org/2r7Eptq), along with general resources and FAQs on
manuscript postacceptance procedures and dissemination
(https://on.apa.org/2KEBBgn). If your article is published via an open access
deposit policy, a version is also made available freely online (see Section
12.21).
12.24 Promoting Your Article
Authors are encouraged to promote their article after its publication. One way
they may do so is to develop short summaries describing their work in plain
language and share these along with the article DOI through their social
media networks. A journal may also ask for a public health significance
statement or impact statement as part of the article; authors can use this
statement as a foundation for communicating their work and its broader
impact to the public. The name of this section and whether it is required
depend on the journal, but the goal is to make the research more accessible to
the public. Guidance on writing public health significance or impact
statements can be found on the APA website (https://on.apa.org/2DKj1lH).
Similarly, organizations or universities where the author is employed may ask
for text to include in a press release to disseminate key findings from the
study. These materials are typically brief, so make sure that the language is
clear and that findings are reported accurately and appropriately.
Communicating your research in plain language to the public is important
for reaching a wide array of readers who might otherwise be unaware of your
work and its potential significance. Many publishers offer various tools to
assist authors in promoting their work and tracking its impact. Advice on
promoting your article, including how to work with the media, write social
media posts, and track readership of your article, can be found on the APA
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 615 ---

website (https://on.apa.org/2KEsnR6). The publication of your work
represents a significant achievement, but in many ways publication is only
the beginning of its impact on the greater public.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 616 ---

 
CREDITS FOR ADAPTED
TABLES, FIGURES, AND
PAPERS
Many tables and figures, as well as the professional sample paper, presented
in the Publication Manual were adapted from published works. The copyright
attributions for those works are noted here in order of appearance. The APA
Style team created all other tables and figures and the student sample paper.
Figure 2.1: Adapted from “The Role of Compulsive Texting in Adolescents’
Academic Functioning,” by K. M. Lister-Landman, S. E. Domoff, and E.
F. Dubow, 2017, Psychology of Popular Media Culture, 6(4), p. 311
(https://doi.org/10.1037/ppm0000100). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 2.5: Adapted from “Age and Gender Differences in Self-Esteem—A
Cross-Cultural Window,” by W. Bleidorn, R. C. Arslan, J. J. A. Denissen,
P. J. Rentfrow, J. E. Gebauer, J. Potter, and S. D. Gosling, 2016, Journal
of Personality and Social Psychology, 111(3), pp. 396–410
(https://doi.org/10.1037/pspp0000078). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Professional Sample Paper: Adapted from “A Comparison of Student
Evaluations of Teaching With Online and Paper-Based Administration,”
by C. J. Stanny and J. E. Arruda, 2017, Scholarship of Teaching and
Learning in Psychology, 3(3), pp. 198–207
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 617 ---

(https://doi.org/10.1037/stl0000087). Copyright 2017 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 3.1: Adapted from “Journal Article Reporting Standards for
Quantitative Research in Psychology: The APA Publications and
Communications Board Task Force Report,” by M. Appelbaum, H.
Cooper, R. B. Kline, E. Mayo-Wilson, A. M. Nezu, and S. M. Rao, 2018,
American Psychologist, 73(1), pp. 6–8
(https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000191). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 3.2: Adapted from “Journal Article Reporting Standards for Qualitative
Primary, Qualitative Meta-Analytic, and Mixed Methods Research in
Psychology: The APA Publications and Communications Board Task
Force Report,” by H. M. Levitt, M. Bamberg, J. W. Creswell, D. M.
Frost, R. Josselson, and C. Suárez-Orozco, 2018, American Psychologist,
73(1), pp. 34–37 (https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000151). Copyright 2018
by the American Psychological Association.
Table 3.3: Adapted from “Journal Article Reporting Standards for Qualitative
Primary, Qualitative Meta-Analytic, and Mixed Methods Research in
Psychology: The APA Publications and Communications Board Task
Force Report,” by H. M. Levitt, M. Bamberg, J. W. Creswell, D. M.
Frost, R. Josselson, and C. Suárez-Orozco, 2018, American Psychologist,
73(1), pp. 41–43 (https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000151). Copyright 2018
by the American Psychological Association.
Figure 3.1: Adapted from “Journal Article Reporting Standards for
Quantitative Research in Psychology: The APA Publications and
Communications Board Task Force Report,” by M. Appelbaum, H.
Cooper, R. B. Kline, E. Mayo-Wilson, A. M. Nezu, and S. M. Rao, 2018,
American Psychologist, 73(1), p. 5
(https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000191). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.2: Adapted from “Internet-Based Cognitive–Behavior Therapy for
Procrastination: A Randomized-Controlled Trial,” by A. Rozental, E.
Forsell, A. Svensson, G. Andersson, and P. Carlbring, 2015, Journal of
Consulting and Clinical Psychology, 83(4), p. 815
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 618 ---

(https://doi.org/10.1037/ccp0000023). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.3: Adapted from “Introduction of the DSM-5 Levels of Personality
Functioning Questionnaire,” by S. K. Huprich, S. M. Nelson, K. B.
Meehan, C. J. Siefert, G. Haggerty, J. Sexton, V. B. Dauphin, M.
Macaluso, J. Jackson, R. Zackula, and L. Baade, 2018, Personality
Disorders: Theory, Research, and Treatment, 9(6), p. 557
(https://doi.org/10.1037/per0000264). Copyright 2017 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.4: Adapted from “A Meta-Analysis of Context Integration Deficits
Across the Schizotypy Spectrum Using AX-CPT and DPX Tasks,” by C.
A. Chun, L. Ciceron, and T. R. Kwapil, 2018, Journal of Abnormal
Psychology, 127(8), pp. 795–797 (https://doi.org/10.1037/abn0000383).
Copyright 2018 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.5: Adapted from “A Further Assessment of the Hall–Rodriguez
Theory of Latent Inhibition,” by H. T. Leung, A. S. Killcross, and R. F.
Westbrook, 2013, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Animal Behavior
Processes, 39(2), p. 119 (https://doi.org/10.1037/a0031724). Copyright
2013 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.6: Adapted from “Low Social Rhythm Regularity Predicts First Onset
of Bipolar Spectrum Disorders Among At-Risk Individuals With Reward
Hypersensitivity,” by L. B. Alloy, E. M. Boland, T. H. Ng, W. G.
Whitehouse, and L. Y. Abramson, 2015, Journal of Abnormal
Psychology, 124(4), p. 946 (https://doi.org/10.1037/abn0000107).
Copyright 2015 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.7: Adapted from “I Don’t Believe It! Belief Perseverance in Attitudes
Toward Celebrities,” by N. H. Bui, 2014, Psychology of Popular Media
Culture, 3(1), p. 43 (https://doi.org/10.1037/a0034916). Copyright 2013
by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.8: Adapted from “The Slow Developmental Time Course of Real-
Time Spoken Word Recognition,” by H. Rigler, A. Farris-Trimble, L.
Greiner, J. Walker, J. B Tomblin, and B. McMurray, 2015,
Developmental Psychology, 51(12), p. 1697
(https://doi.org/10.1037/dev0000044). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 619 ---

Table 7.9: Adapted from “Students’ Implicit Theories of University
Professors,” by J. Yermack and D. R. Forsyth, 2016, Scholarship of
Teaching and Learning in Psychology, 2(3), p. 176
(https://doi.org/10.1037/stl0000067). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.10: Adapted from “Build or Buy? The Individual and Unit-Level
Performance of Internally Versus Externally Selected Managers Over
Time,” by P. S. DeOrtentiis, C. H. Van Iddekinge, R. E. Ployhart, and T.
D. Heetderks, 2018, Journal of Applied Psychology, 103(8), p. 922
(https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000312). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.11: Adapted from “Academic Disidentification in Black College
Students: The Role of Teacher Trust and Gender,” by S. McClain and K.
Cokley, 2017, Cultural Diversity and Ethnic Minority Psychology, 23(1),
p. 128 (https://doi.org/10.1037/cdp0000094). Copyright 2016 by the
American Psychological Association.
Table 7.12: Adapted from “Living in a Continuous Traumatic Reality: Impact
on Elderly Persons Residing in Urban and Rural Communities,” by I.
Regev and O. Nuttman-Shwartz, 2016, American Journal of Orth-
opsychiatry, 86(6), p. 656 (https://doi.org/10.1037/ort0000165).
Copyright 2016 by the Global Alliance for Behavioral Health and Social
Justice. Reprinted with permission.
Table 7.13: Adapted from “Work-Related Self-Efficacy as a Moderator of the
Impact of a Worksite Stress Management Training Intervention: Intrinsic
Work Motivation as a Higher Order Condition of Effect,” by J. Lloyd, F.
W. Bond, and P. E. Flaxman, 2017, Journal of Occupational Health
Psychology, 22(1), p. 121 (https://doi.org/10.1037/ocp0000026).
Copyright 2016 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.14: Adapted from “Individual Differences in Activation of the
Parental Care Motivational System: Assessment, Prediction, and
Implications,” by E. E. Buckels, A. T. Beall, M. K. Hofer, E. Y. Lin, Z.
Zhou, and M. Schaller, 2015, Journal of Personality and Social
Psychology, 108(3), p. 501 (https://doi.org/10.1037/pspp0000023).
Copyright 2015 by the American Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 620 ---

Table 7.15: Adapted from “Too Tired to Inspire or Be Inspired: Sleep
Deprivation and Charismatic Leadership,” by C. M. Barnes, C. L.
Guarana, S. Nauman, and D. T. Kong, 2016, Journal of Applied
Psychology, 101(8), p. 1195 (https://doi.org/10.1037/apl0000123).
Copyright 2016 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.16: Adapted from “I Just Want to Be Left Alone: Daily Overload and
Marital Behavior,” by M. S. Sears, R. L. Repetti, T. F. Robles, and B. M.
Reynolds, 2016, Journal of Family Psychology, 30(5), p. 576
(https://doi.org/10.1037/fam0000197). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.17: Adapted from “Creativity and Academic Achievement: A Meta-
Analysis,” by A. Gajda, M. Karwowski, and R. A. Beghetto, 2017,
Journal of Ed-ucational Psychology, 109(2), p. 286
(https://doi.org/10.1037/edu0000133). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.18: Adapted from “The Role of Social Class, Ethnocultural
Adaptation, and Masculinity Ideology on Mexican American College
Men’s Well-Being,” by L. Ojeda and B. Piña-Watson, 2016, Psychology
of Men & Masculinity, 17(4), p. 376
(https://doi.org/10.1037/men0000023). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.19: Adapted from “Tutorial: The Practical Application of
Longitudinal Structural Equation Mediation Models in Clinical Trials,”
by K. A. Goldsmith, D. P. MacKinnon, T. Chalder, P. D. White, M.
Sharpe, and A. Pickles, 2018, Psychological Methods, 23(2), p. 203
(https://doi.org/10.1037/met0000154). Copyright 2017 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.20: Adapted from “Do Unto Others or Treat Yourself? The Effects of
Prosocial and Self-Focused Behavior on Psychological Flourishing,” by
S. K. Nelson, K. Layous, S. W. Cole, and S. Lyubomirsky, 2016,
Emotion, 16(6), p. 855 (https://doi.org/10.1037/emo0000178). Copyright
2016 by the American Psychological Association.
Table 7.21: Adapted from “An Empirical Analysis of Three Intelligences,” by
K. A. Crowne, 2013, Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science/Revue
canadienne des sciences du comportement, 45(2), p. 108
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 621 ---

(https://doi.org/10.1037/a0029110). Copyright 2012 by the Canadian
Psychological Association. Reprinted with permission.
Table 7.22: Adapted from “Harmony, Dissonance, and the Gay Community:
A Dialogical Approach to Same-Sex Desiring Men’s Sexual Identity
Development,” by B. R. Davis, 2015, Qualitative Psychology, 2(1), p. 84
(https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000017). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.23: Adapted from “Tuning Into Fantasy: Motivations to View
Wedding Television and Associated Romantic Beliefs,” by V. Hefner,
2016, Psychology of Popular Media Culture, 5(4), p. 313
(https://doi.org/10.1037/ppm0000079). Copyright 2015 by the American
Psychological Association.
Table 7.24: Adapted from “The Effects of Topic Familiarity, Author
Expertise, and Content Relevance on Norwegian Students’ Document
Selection: A Mixed Methods Study,” by M. T. McCrudden, T. Stenseth,
I. Bråten, and H. I. Strømsø, 2016, Journal of Educational Psychology,
108(2), p. 157 (https://doi.org/10.1037/edu0000057). Copyright 2015 by
the American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.2: Adapted from “Framing of Online Risk: Young Adults’ and
Adolescents’ Representations of Risky Gambles,” by C. M. White, M.
Gummerum, and Y. Hanoch, 2018, Decision, 5(2), p. 124
(https://doi.org/10.1037/dec0000066). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.3: Adapted from “Large Continuous Perspective Change With
Noncoplanar Points Enables Accurate Slant Perception,” by X. M. Wang,
M. Lind, and G. P. Bingham, 2018, Journal of Experimental Psychology:
Human Perception and Performance, 44(10), p. 1513
(https://doi.org/10.1037/xhp0000553). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.4: Adapted from “An Investigation of Implied Miranda Waivers and
Powell Wording in a Mock-Crime Study,” by N. D. Gillard, R. Rogers,
K. R. Kelsey, and E. V. Robinson, 2014, Law and Human Behavior,
38(5), p. 504 (https://doi.org/10.1037/lhb0000093). Copyright 2014 by
the American Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 622 ---

Figure 7.5: Adapted from “Towards Personalized, Brain-Based Behavioral
Intervention for Transdiagnostic Anxiety: Transient Neural Responses to
Negative Images Predict Outcomes Following a Targeted Computer-
Based Intervention,” by R. B. Price, L. Cummings, D. Gilchrist, S. Graur,
L. Banihashemi, S. S. Kuo, and G. J. Siegle, 2018, Journal of Consulting
and Clinical Psychology, 86(12), p. 1034
(https://doi.org/10.1037/ccp0000309). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.6: Adapted from “Meeting the Mental Health Needs of Children and
Youth Through Integrated Care: A Systems and Policy Perspective,” by
D. de Voursney and L. N. Huang, 2016, Psychological Services, 13(1), p.
84 (https://doi.org/10.1037/ser0000045). In the public domain.
Figure 7.7: Adapted from “Mothers’ Depressive Symptoms and Children’s
Cognitive and Social Agency: Predicting First-Grade Cognitive
Functioning,” by N. Yan and T. Dix, 2016, Developmental Psychology,
52(8), p. 1295 (https://doi.org/10.1037/dev0000120). Copyright 2016 by
the American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.8: Adapted from “The Chills as a Psychological Construct: Content
Universe, Factor Structure, Affective Composition, Elicitors, Trait
Antecedents, and Consequences,” by L. A. Maruskin, T. M. Thrash, and
A. J. Elliot, 2012, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 103(1),
p. 143 (https://doi.org/10.1037/a0028117). Copyright 2012 by the
American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.9: Adapted from “Camera-Ready: Young Women’s Appearance-
Related Social Media Consciousness,” by S. Choukas-Bradley, J. Nesi, L.
Widman, and M. K. Higgins, 2018, Psychology of Popular Media
Culture, advance online publication
(https://doi.org/10.1037/ppm0000196). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.10: Adapted from “Racial Microaggression Experiences and Coping
Strategies of Black Women in Corporate Leadership,” by A. M. B.
Holder, M. A. Jackson, and J. G. Ponterotto, 2015, Qualitative
Psychology, 2(2), p. 171 (https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000024).
Copyright 2015 by the American Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 623 ---

Figure 7.11: Adapted from “Traditions and Alcohol Use: A Mixed-Methods
Analysis,” by F. G. Castro and K. Coe, 2007, Cultural Diversity and
Ethnic Minority Psychology, 13(4), p. 271 (https://doi.org/10.1037/1099-
9809.13.4.269). Copyright 2007 by the American Psychological
Association.
Figure 7.12: Adapted from “Children Understand That Agents Maximize
Expected Utilities,” by J. Jara-Ettinger, S. Floyd, J. B. Tenenbaum, and L.
E. Schulz, 2017, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General, 146(11),
p. 1582 (https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000345). Copyright 2017 by the
American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.13: Adapted from “The Limits of Learning: Exploration,
Generalization, and the Development of Learning Traps,” by A. S. Rich
and T. M. Gureckis, 2018, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,
147(11), p. 1560 (https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000466). Copyright 2018
by the American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.14: Adapted from 2017 Poverty Rate in the Unit-ed States, by the
U.S. Census Bureau, 2017
(https://www.census.gov/library/visualizations/2018/comm/acs-poverty-
map.html). In the public domain.
Figure 7.15: Adapted from “Empathic Accuracy for Happiness in the Daily
Lives of Older Couples: Fluid Cognitive Performance Predicts Pattern
Accuracy Among Men,” by G. Hülür, C. A. Hoppmann, A. Rauers, H.
Schade, N. Ram, and D. Gerstorf, 2016, Psychology and Aging, 31(5), p.
550 (https://doi.org/10.1037/pag0000109). Copyright 2016 by the
American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.16: Adapted from “An Empirically-Derived Taxonomy of Moral
Concepts,” by J. F. Landy and D. M. Bartels, 2018, Journal of
Experimental Psychology: General, 147(11), p. 1752
(https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000404). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.17: Adapted from “Out of Place, Out of Mind: Schema-Driven False
Memory Effects for Object-Location Bindings,” by A. R. Lew and M. L.
Howe, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and
Cognition, 43(3), p. 405 (https://doi.org/10.1037/xlm0000317). Copyright
2016 by the American Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 624 ---

Figure 7.18: Adapted from “Bayesian Mixture Modeling of Significant p
Values: A Meta-Analytic Method to Estimate the Degree of
Contamination From H 0,” by Q. F. Gronau, M. Duizer, M. Bakker, and
E.-J. Wagenmakers, 2017, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,
146(9), p. 1227 (https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000324). Copyright 2017 by
the American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.19: Adapted from “Enhanced Processing of Untrustworthiness in
Natural Faces With Neutral Expressions,” by A. Lischke, M. Junge, A. O.
Hamm, and M. Weymar, 2018, Emotion, 18(2), p. 185
(https://doi.org/10.1037/emo0000318). Copyright 2017 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 7.20: Adapted from “Denying Humanity: The Distinct Neural
Correlates of Blatant Dehumanization,” by E. Bruneau, N. Jacoby, N.
Kteily, and R. Saxe, 2018, Journal of Experimental Psychology: General,
147(7), p. 1087 (https://doi.org/10.1037/xge0000417). Copyright 2018 by
the American Psychological Association.
Figure 7.21: Adapted from “NF1 Microduplications: Identification of Seven
Nonrelated Individuals Provides Further Characterization of the
Phenotype,” by K. J. Moles, G. C. Gowans, S. Gedela, D. Beversdorf, A.
Yu, L. H. Seaver, R. A. Schultz, J. A. Rosenfeld, B. S. Torchia, and L. G.
Shaffer, 2012, Genetics in Medicine, 14, p. 509
(https://doi.org/10.1038/gim.2011.46). Copyright 2012 by the American
College of Medical Genetics and Genomics. Reprinted with permission.
Figure 8.1: Adapted from “Clever People: Intelligence and Humor Production
Ability,” by A. P. Christensen, P. J. Silvia, E. C. Nusbaum, and R. E.
Beaty, 2018, Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts, 12(2), p.
136 (https://doi.org/10.1037/aca0000109). Copyright 2018 by the
American Psychological Asso-ciation.
Figure 8.3: Adapted from “Can Journalistic ‘False Balance’ Distort Public
Perception of Consensus in Ex-pert Opinion?” by D. J. Koehler, 2016,
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Applied, 22(1), pp. 24–38
(https://doi.org/10.1037/xap0000073). Copyright 2016 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 8.4: Adapted from “Discrimination, Work Out-comes, and Mental
Health Among Women of Color: The Protective Role of Womanist
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 625 ---

Attitudes,” by B. L. Velez, R. Cox Jr., C. J. Polihronakis, and B. Moradi,
2018, Journal of Counseling Psychology, 65(2), pp. 178, 193
(https://doi.org/10.1037/cou0000274). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 8.5: Adapted from “Play Therapists’ Perceptions of Wellness and Self-
Care Practices,” by K. K. Meany-Walen, A. Cobie-Nuss, E. Eittreim, S.
Teeling, S. Wilson, and C. Xander, 2018, International Journal of Play
Therapy, 27(3), p. 177 (https://doi.org/10.1037/pla0000067). Copyright
2018 by the American Psychological Association.
Figure 8.6: Adapted from “Tabloids as Windows Into Our Interpersonal
Relationships: A Content Analysis of Mass Media Gossip From an
Evolutionary Perspective,” by C. J. S. De Backer and M. L. Fisher, 2012,
Journal of Social, Evolutionary, and Cultural Psycholo-gy, 6(3), p. 421
(https://doi.org/10.1037/h0099244). Copyright 2012 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 8.7: Adapted from “Women Athletes’ Self-Compassion, Self-
Criticism, and Perceived Sport Performance,” by M. E. Killham, A. D.
Mosewich, D. E. Mack, K. E. Gunnell, and L. J. Ferguson, 2018, Sport,
Exercise, and Performance Psychology, 7(3), p. 297
(https://doi.org/10.1037/spy0000127). Copyright 2018 by the American
Psychological Association.
Figure 9.1: Adapted from “Sensitivity to the Evaluation of Others Emerges by
24 Months,” by S. V. Botto and P. Rochat, 2018, Developmental
Psychology, 54(9), p. 1723 (https://doi.org/10.1037/dev0000548).
Copyright 2018 by the American Psychological Association.
Figure 9.4: Adapted from “Aging and Recognition Mem-ory: A Meta-
Analysis,” by S. H. Fraundorf, K. L. Hourihan, R. A. Peters, and A. S.
Benjamin, 2019, Psychological Bulletin, 145(4), pp. 359–368
(https://doi.org/10.1037/bul0000185). Copyright 2019 by the American
Psychological Association.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 626 ---

 
R E F E R E N C E S
Accord Alliance. (n.d.). Learn about DSD.
http://www.accordalliance.org/learn-about-dsd/
American Educational Research Association, American Psychological
Association, & National Council on Measurement in Education. (2014).
Standards for educational and psychological testing.
https://www.apa.org/science/programs/testing/standards.aspx
American Psychological Association. (n.d.-a). Definitions related to sexual
orientation and gender diversity in APA documents.
https://www.apa.org/pi/lgbt/resources/sexuality-definitions.pdf
American Psychological Association. (n.d.-b). Task force on statistical
inference. https://www.apa.org/science/leadership/bsa/statistical/
American Psychological Association. (2010). Publication manual of the
American Psychological Association (6th ed.).
American Psychological Association. (2012a). Guidelines for ethical conduct
in the care and use of nonhuman animals in research.
https://www.apa.org/science/leadership/care/care-animal-guidelines.pdf
American Psychological Association. (2012b). Guidelines for psychological
practice with lesbian, gay, and bisexual clients. American Psychologist,
67(1), 10–42. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0024659
American Psychological Association. (2012c). Guidelines for the evaluation
of dementia and age-related cognitive change. American Psychologist,
67(1), 1–9. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0024643
American Psychological Association. (2014). Guidelines for psychological
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 627 ---

practice with older adults. American Psychologist, 69(1), 34–65.
https://doi.org/10.1037/a0035063
American Psychological Association. (2015a). Guidelines for psychological
practice with transgender and gender nonconforming people. American
Psychologist, 70(9), 832–864. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0039906
American Psychological Association. (2015b). Key terms and concepts in
understanding gender diversity and sexual orientation among students.
https://www.apa.org/pi/lgbt/programs/safe-supportive/lgbt/key-terms.pdf
American Psychological Association. (2017a). Ethical principles of
psychologists and code of conduct (2002, amended effective June 1,
2010, and January 1, 2017). https://www.apa.org/ethics/code/index.aspx
American Psychological Association. (2017b). Multicultural guidelines: An
ecological approach to context, identity, and intersectionality.
https://www.apa.org/about/policy/multicultural-guidelines.aspx
American Psychological Association. (2018). APA resolution for the use of
the term patient in American Psychological Association policies, rules,
and public relations activities when referring to the health-related and
scientific activities of health service psychologists and scientists in health
care services and settings. https://www.apa.org/about/policy/resolution-
term-patient.pdf
American Psychological Association of Graduate Students. (2015). Proud
and prepared: A guide for LGBT students navigating graduate training.
American Psychological Association.
https://www.apa.org/apags/resources/lgbt-guide.aspx
APA Publications and Communications Board Working Group on Journal
Article Reporting Standards. (2008). Reporting standards for research in
psychology: Why do we need them? What might they be? American
Psychologist, 63(9), 839–851. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-
066X.63.9.839
Appelbaum, M., Cooper, H., Kline, R. B., Mayo-Wilson, E., Nezu, A. M., &
Rao, S. M. (2018). Journal article reporting standards for quantitative
research in psychology: The APA Publications and Communications
Board Task Force report. American Psychologist, 73(1), 3–25.
https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000191
The Asexual Visibility & Education Network. (n.d.). General FAQ:
Definitions. https://www.asexuality.org/?q=general.html#def
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 628 ---

Beaubien, S., & Eckard, M. (2014). Addressing faculty publishing concerns
with open access journal quality indicators. Journal of Librarianship and
Scholarly Communication, 2(2), Article eP1133.
https://doi.org/10.7710/2162-3309.1133
Bentley, M., Peerenboom, C. A., Hodge, F. W., Passano, E. B., Warren, H.
C., & Washburn, M. F. (1929). Instructions in regard to preparation of
manuscript. Psychological Bulletin, 26(2), 57–63.
https://doi.org/10.1037/h0071487
Blackless, M., Charuvastra, A., Derryck, A., Fausto-Sterling, A., Lauzanne,
K., & Lee, E. (2000). How sexually dimorphic are we? Review and
synthesis. American Journal of Human Biology, 12(2), 151–166.
http://doi.org/bttkh4
The bluebook: A uniform system of citation (20th ed.). (2015). Harvard Law
Review Association.
Bowleg, L. (2008). When Black + woman + lesbian ≠ Black lesbian woman:
The methodological challenges of quantitative and qualitative
intersectionality research. Sex Roles, 59(5–6), 312–325.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11199-008-9400-z
Bowman, J. D. (2014). Predatory publishing, questionable peer review, and
fraudulent conferences. American Journal of Pharmaceutical Education,
78(10), Article 176. https://doi.org/10.5688/ajpe7810176
Brown, L. (n.d.). Identity-first language. Autistic Self Advocacy Network.
https://autisticadvocacy.org/home/about-asan/identity-first-language
(Original work published 2011)
Brueggemann, B. J. (2013). Disability studies/disability culture. In M. L.
Wehmeyer (Ed.), The Oxford handbook of positive psychology and
disability (pp. 279–299). Oxford University Press.
https://doi.org/10.1093/oxfordhb/9780195398786.013.013.0019
Cooper, H. (2016, May 12). Principles of good writing: Avoiding plagiarism.
APA Style. https://blog.apastyle.org/apastyle/2016/05/avoiding-
plagiarism.html
Cooper, H. (2018). Reporting quantitative research in psychology: How to
meet APA Style journal article reporting standards (2nd ed.). American
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000103-000
Copyright Act of 1976, 17 U.S.C. §§ 101–810 (1976).
Crenshaw, K. W. (1989). Demarginalizing the intersections of race and sex:
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 629 ---

A Black feminist critique of antidiscrimination doctrine, feminist theory,
and antiracist politics. University of Chicago Legal Forum, 1989(1),
Article 8. https://chicagounbound.uchicago.edu/uclf/vol1989/iss1/8/
Creswell, J. W. (2015). A concise introduction to mixed methods research.
SAGE Publications.
Creswell, J. W., & Plano Clark, V. L. (2017). Designing and conducting
mixed methods research (3rd ed.). SAGE Publications.
Creswell, J. W., & Poth, C. N. (2018). Qualitative inquiry and research
design: Choosing among five approaches (4th ed.). SAGE Publications.
Data Sharing Working Group. (2015). Data sharing: Principles and
considerations for policy development. American Psychological
Association. https://www.apa.org/science/leadership/bsa/data-sharing-
report.pdf
de Onís, C. M. (2017). What’s in an “x”? An exchange about the politics of
“Latinx.” Chiricú Journal: Latina/o Literatures, Arts, and Cultures, 1(2),
78–91. https://doi.org/10.2979/chiricu.1.2.07
Diemer, M. A., Mistry, R. S., Wadsworth, M. E., López, I., & Reimers, F.
(2013). Best practices in conceptualizing and measuring social class in
psychological research. Analyses of Social Issues and Public Policy,
13(1), 77–113. https://doi.org/10.1111/asap.12001
DuBois, J. M., Walsh, H., & Strait, M. (2018). It is time to share (some)
qualitative data: Reply to Guishard (2018), McCurdy and Ross (2018),
and Roller and Lavrakas (2018). Qualitative Psychology, 5(3), 412–415.
https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000092
Dunn, D. S., & Andrews, E. E. (n.d.). Choosing words for talking about
disability. American Psychological Association.
https://www.apa.org/pi/disability/resources/choosing-words.aspx
Dunn, D. S., & Andrews, E. E. (2015). Person-first and identity-first
language: Developing psychologists’ cultural competence using disability
language. American Psychologist, 70(3), 255–264.
https://doi.org/10.1037/a0038636
Fine, M. (2013). Echoes of Bedford: A 20-year social psychology memoir on
participatory action research hatched behind bars. American Psychologist,
68(8), 687–698. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0034359
Fisher, C. B. (2017). Decoding the ethics code: A practical guide for
psychologists (4th ed.). SAGE Publications.
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 630 ---

Gastil, J. (1990). Generic pronouns and sexist language: The oxymoronic
character of masculine generics. Sex Roles, 23(11–12), 629–643.
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00289252
Greene, J. C. (2007). Mixed methods in social inquiry. Jossey-Bass.
Guishard, M. A. (2018). Now’s not the time! Qualitative data repositories on
tricky ground: Comment on DuBois et al. (2018). Qualitative Psychology,
5(3), 402–408. https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000085
Guishard, M. A., Halkovic, A., Galletta, A., & Li, P. (2018). Toward
epistemological ethics: Centering communities and social justice in
qualitative research. Forum: Qualitative Social Research, 19(3), Article
27. https://doi.org/10.17169/fqs-19.3.3145
Hallock, R. M., & Dillner, K. M. (2016). Should title lengths really adhere to
the American Psychological Association’s twelve word limit? American
Psychologist, 71(3), 240–242. https://doi.org/10.1037/a0040226
Hegarty, P., & Buechel, C. (2006). Androcentric reporting of gender
differences in APA journals: 1965–2004. Review of General Psychology,
10(4), 377–389. https://doi.org/10.1037/1089-2680.10.4.377
Hill, C. E. (Ed.). (2012). Consensual qualitative research: A practical
resource for investigating social science phenomena. American
Psychological Association.
Howard, J. A., & Renfrow, D. G. (2014). Intersectionality. In J. D. McLeod,
E. J. Lawler, & M. Schwalbe (Eds.), Handbook of the social psychology
of inequality (pp. 95–121). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-94-017-
9002-4
International Committee on Standardized Genetic Nomenclature for Mice &
Rat Genome and Nomenclature Committee. (2018). Guidelines for
nomenclature of genes, genetic markers, alleles, and mutations in mouse
and rat. Mouse Genome Informatics.
http://www.informatics.jax.org/mgihome/nomen/gene.shtml
International Journal of Indigenous Health. (n.d.). Defining Aboriginal
Peoples within Canada.
https://journals.uvic.ca/journalinfo/ijih/IJIHDefiningIndigenousPeoplesW
ithinCanada.pdf
Intersex Society of North America. (n.d.). How common is intersex?
http://www.isna.org/faq/frequency
Jamali, H. R., & Nikzad, M. (2011). Article title type and its relation with the
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 631 ---

number of downloads and citations. Scientometrics, 88(2), 653–661.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11192-011-0412-z
Knatterud, M. E. (1991). Writing with the patient in mind: Don’t add insult to
injury. American Medical Writers Association Journal, 6(1), 10–17.
Laine, C., & Winker, M. A. (2017). Identifying predatory or pseudo-journals.
Biochemia Medica, 27(2), 285–291.
https://doi.org/10.11613/BM.2017.031
Levitt, H. M. (2019). Reporting qualitative research in psychology: How to
meet APA Style journal article reporting standards. American
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000121-000
Levitt, H. M., Bamberg, M., Creswell, J. W., Frost, D. M., Josselson, R., &
Suárez-Orozco, C. (2018). Journal article reporting standards for
qualitative primary, qualitative meta-analytic, and mixed methods
research in psychology: The APA Publications and Communications
Board Task Force report. American Psychologist, 73(1), 26–46.
https://doi.org/10.1037/amp0000151
Levitt, H. M., Motulsky, S. L., Wertz, F. J., Morrow, S. L., & Ponterotto, J.
G. (2017). Recommendations for designing and reviewing qualitative
research in psychology: Promoting methodological integrity. Qualitative
Psychology, 4(1), 2–22. https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000082
Lindland, E., Fond, M., Haydon, A., & Kendall-Taylor, N. (2015). Gauging
aging: Mapping the gaps between expert and public understandings of
aging in America. FrameWorks Institute.
https://frameworksinstitute.org/assets/files/aging_mtg.pdf
Lundebjerg, N. E., Trucil, D. E., Hammond, E. C., & Applegate, W. B.
(2017). When it comes to older adults, language matters: Journal of the
American Geriatrics Society adopts modified American Medical
Association Style. Journal of the American Geriatrics Society, 65(7),
1386–1388. https://doi.org/10.1111/jgs.14941
Masten, Y., & Ashcraft, A. (2017). Due diligence in the open-access
explosion era: Choosing a reputable journal for publication. FEMS
Microbiology Letters, 364(21), Article fnx206.
https://doi.org/10.1093/femsle/fnx206
McCurdy, S. A., & Ross, M. W. (2018). Qualitative data are not just
quantitative data with text but data with context: On the dangers of
sharing some qualitative data: Comment on DuBois et al (2018).
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 632 ---

Qualitative Psychology, 5(3), 409–411.
https://doi.org/10.1037/qup0000088
Merriam, S. B., & Tisdell, E. J. (2016). Qualitative research: A guide to
design and implementation (4th ed.). Jossey-Bass.
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.-a). Words we’re watching: ‘Patchwriting’:
Paraphrasing in a cut-and-paste world. https://www.merriam-
webster.com/words-at-play/words-were-watching-patchwriting
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.-b). Words we’re watching: Singular ‘they’: Though
singular ‘they’ is old, ‘they’ as a nonbinary pronoun is new—and useful.
https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/singular-nonbinary-
they
Morrow, S. L. (2005). Quality and trustworthiness in qualitative research in
counseling psychology. Journal of Counseling Psychology, 52(2), 250–
260. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-0167.52.2.250
Morse, J. M. (2008). “What’s your favorite color?” Reporting irrelevant
demographics in qualita-tive research. Qualitative Health Research, 18(3),
299–300. https://doi.org/10.1177/1049732307310995
Moulton, J., Robinson, G. M., & Elias, C. (1978). Sex bias in language use:
“Neutral” pronouns that aren’t. American Psychologist, 33(11), 1032–
1036. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-066X.33.11.1032
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. (2019).
Reproducibility and replicability in science. The National Academies
Press. https://doi.org/10.17226/25303
National Institutes of Health. (n.d.). NIH data sharing policies. U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services, U.S. National Library of
Medicine.
https://www.nlm.nih.gov/NIHbmic/nih_data_sharing_policies.html
Neimeyer, R. A., Hogan, N. S., & Laurie, A. (2008). The measurement of
grief: Psychometric considerations in the assessment of reactions to
bereavement. In M. S. Stroebe, R. O. Hansson, H. Schut, & W. Stroebe
(Eds.), Handbook of bereavement research and practice: Advances in
theory and intervention (pp. 133–161). American Psychological
Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/14498-007
Open Scholarship Initiative. (2019, March 19). OSI brief: Deceptive
publishing. http://osiglobal.org/2019/03/19/osi-brief-deceptive-
publishing/
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 633 ---

Parker, I. (2015). Psychology after discourse analysis: Concepts, methods,
critique. Routledge.
Ponterotto, J. G. (2005). Qualitative research in counseling psychology: A
primer on research paradigms and philosophy of science. Journal of
Counseling Psychology, 52(2), 126–136. https://doi.org/10.1037/0022-
0167.52.2.126
Rappaport, J. (1977). Community psychology: Values, research and action.
Holt, Rinehart, & Winston.
Shamseer, L., Moher, D., Maduekwe, O., Turner, L., Barbour, V., Burch, R.,
Clark, J., Galipeau, J., Roberts, J., & Shea, B. J. (2017). Potential
predatory and legitimate biomedical journals: Can you tell the difference?
A cross-sectional comparison. BMC Medicine, 15(1), Article 28.
https://doi.org/10.1186/s12916-017-0785-9
Singh, A. A. (2017). Understanding trauma and supporting resilience with
LGBT people of color. In K. L. Eckstrand & J. Potter (Eds.), Trauma,
resilience, and health promotion in LGBT patients: What every healthcare
provider should know (pp. 113–119). Springer.
Solomon, A. (2012). Far from the tree: Parents, children, and the search for
identity. Scribner.
Stiles, W. B. (1993). Quality control in qualitative research. Clinical
Psychology Review, 13(6), 593–618. https://doi.org/10.1016/0272-
7358(93)90048-Q
Stout, J. G., & Dasgupta, N. (2011). When he doesn’t mean you: Gender-
exclusive language as ostracism. Personality and Social Psychology
Bulletin, 37(6), 757–769. https://doi.org/10.1177/0146167211406434
Sweeney, L., Crosas, M., & Bar-Sinai, M. (2015, October 16). Sharing
sensitive data with confidence: The datatags system. Technology Science.
https://techscience.org/a/2015101601/
Sweetland, J., Volmert, A., & O’Neil, M. (2017). Finding the frame: An
empirical approach to reframing aging and ageism. FrameWorks Institute.
http://frameworksinstitute.org/assets/files/aging_elder_abuse/aging_resea
rch_report_final_2017.pdf
Tashakkori, A., & Teddlie, C. (Eds.). (2010). SAGE handbook of mixed
methods in social & behavioral research (2nd ed.). SAGE Publications.
https://doi.org/10.4135/9781506335193
Tuck, E., & Yang, K. W. (2014). Unbecoming claims: Pedagogies of refusal
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 634 ---

in qualitative research. Qualitative Inquiry, 20(6), 811–818.
https://doi.org/10.1177/1077800414530265
University of Kansas, Research and Training Center on Independent Living.
(2013). Guidelines: How to write and report about people with disabilities
(8th ed.).
https://rtcil.drupal.ku.edu/sites/rtcil.drupal.ku.edu/files/images/galleries/G
uidelines%208th%20edition.pdf
U.S. Copyright Office. (2017). Copyright basics (Circular 1). Copyright.gov.
https://www.copyright.gov/circs/circ01.pdf
U.S. Copyright Office. (2019). More information on fair use. Copyright.gov.
https://www.copyright.gov/fair-use/more-info.html
Wain, H. M., Bruford, E. A., Lovering, R. C., Lush, M. J., Wright, M. W., &
Povey, S. (2002). Guidelines for human gene nomenclature. Genomics,
79(4), 464–470. https://doi.org/10.1006/geno.2002.6748
Wainer, H. (1997). Improving tabular displays, with NAEP tables as
examples and inspirations. Journal of Educational and Behavioral
Statistics, 22(1), 1–30. https://doi.org/10.2307/1165236
Web Accessibility Initiative. (2018). Web content accessibility guidelines
(WCAG) overview. https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag
Wilkinson, L., & the Task Force on Statistical Inference. (1999). Statistical
methods in psychology journals: Guidelines and explanations. American
Psychologist, 54(8), 594–604. https://doi.org/10.1037/0003-
066X.54.8.594
World Health Organization. (2001). International classification of
functioning, disability and health (ICF).
https://www.who.int/classifications/icf/en/
World Health Organization. (2011). World report on disability.
https://www.who.int/disabilities/world_report/2011/en/
Younging, G. (2018). Elements of Indigenous style: A guide for writing by
and about Indigenous Peoples. Brush Education.
Zell, E., Krizan, Z., & Teeter, S. R. (2015). Evaluating gender similarities and
differences using metasynthesis. American Psychologist, 70(1), 10–20.
https://doi.org/10.1037/a0038208
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 635 ---

 
INDEX
Numbers in bold refer to section numbers.
A
Abbreviations, 172–178 (6.24–6.31)
for chemical compounds, 177–178 (6.30)
definition of, 173–174 (6.25)
in figures and tables, 205 (7.15)
in figures and tables, 205 (7.15)
format of, 174 (6.26)
for gene and protein names, 178 (6.31)
for group authors, 268 (8.21)
Latin, 177 (6.29)
for legal references, 357 (Table 11.2)
for publisher names, 296 (9.29)
in references, 306–307 (9.50), 324 (10.2)
for statistics, 183–188 (6.44), 184–187 (Table 6.5)
for units of measurement, 174–176 (6.27), 175 (Table 6.4)
for units of time, 64, 176 (6.28)
use of, 172–173 (6.24)
Aboriginal Peoples, 144 (5.7)
Abstract, 38 (2.9), 43 (2.17), 46 (2.24), 50
general standards for, 73–75 (3.3)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 636 ---

JARS–Mixed on, 106 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 95 (Table 3.2)
JARS–Quant on, 77–78 (Table 3.1)
Academic research databases
reference examples for works from, 317 (10.1), 321 (10.2), 322
(10.2), 326 (10.3), 337 (10.8)
reputable journals in, 375 (12.4)
source element for references from, 297 (9.30)
Academic Writer, xxii
Acceptance, of manuscript, 379 (12.8)
Accessibility, xviii, 42 (2.15), 44 (2.19), 228 (7.26)
Accuracy
of abstract, 73 (3.3)
of findings, 11–21 (1.11–1.17)
of quotations, 274 (8.29)
in references, 285 (9.6)
Acknowledgment(s). See also Works credited
in author note, 36–37 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
Action editors, 377 (12.6)
Active voice, 73–74 (3.3), 118 (4.13)
Adaptation
copyright issues and permission for, 384–385 (12.14)
of dissertation or thesis into a journal article, 371–373 (12.1)
of long quotations, 277 (8.34)
of tables or figures, 198–199 (7.7)
Ad hoc reviewers, 377 (12.6)
Administrative materials, 365–366 (11.7)
Advance online publication, 258 (8.5), 290 (9.14), 318 (10.1)
Adverse events, 89 (3.7)
Advisory editors, 377 (12.6)
Affiliation
academic, 33–34 (2.6), 34 (Table 2.2)
author, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 33–35 (2.6), 34
(Table 2.2)
changes in, 36 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
nonacademic, 34 (2.6)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 637 ---

African American, 143 (5.7)
African origin, people of, 143 (5.7)
Afro-American, 143 (5.7)
Age, language related to, 133 (5.1), 135–136 (5.3)
Age groups, 135 (5.3)
Agreement, subject and verb, 119–120 (4.15)
Alaska, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Alaska Natives, 144 (5.7)
Album, 344–345 (10.13)
Alignment, 45 (2.23), 188 (6.45), 198 (7.6)
Alphabet, transliteration of, 301 (9.38)
“Although,” 123 (4.22)
Ambiguity, with in-text citations, 267 (8.18)
Amendments, U.S. Constitution, 367–368 (11.9)
American Indian, 144 (5.7)
American Psychological Association (APA), 131. See also entries
beginning APA
Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct, 11, 12
(1.12), 13, 14 (1.14), 17 (1.16), 21 (1.18), 23 (1.20)
research database of, 297 (9.30)
Americans With Disabilities Act (1990), 362 (11.5)
Ampersand, 266 (8.17), 286 (9.8), 288 (9.10)
Analysis of variance (ANOVA), 208–209 (7.21), 216 (Table 7.12), 217
(Table 7.13)
Analytic strategy (analytic approach), 80 (Table 3.1), 86 (3.6), 93
(3.11)
Anchors, scale, 53, 170 (6.22)
Ancillary analyses, 89 (3.7)
“And”
as alternative to “while,” 123 (4.22)
ampersand vs., 266 (8.17), 286 (9.8), 288 (9.10)
Animals
pronouns for, 121–122 (4.19)
as research subjects, 21–24 (1.18–1.20), 82–83 (3.6), 187 (6.44)
Annotated bibliographies, 9 (1.10), 307 (9.51), 308 (Figure 9.3)
Annotations, 307 (9.51)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 638 ---

Annual reports, 286 (9.7), 330 (10.4)
Anonymity, for research participants, 278 (8.36)
Anonymous authors, 264–265 (8.14), 289 (9.12), 306 (9.49)
ANOVA. See Analysis of variance
Anthologies, 302 (9.39), 325 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
Anthropomorphism, 117 (4.11)
APA Dictionary of Psychology, 127 (4.30), 161 (6.11)
APA Ethics Code. See Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of
Conduct (APA)
APA Style blog, xxii
APA Style website, xxii
Apostrophe
in author’s name, 336 (10.8), 338 (10.9)
in contractions, 116 (4.8)
Apparatuses, references to, 338–340 (10.10)
Appeals, court cases with, 360 (11.4)
Appellate court, 359 (11.4), 361 (11.4)
Appendices, 41–42 (2.14), 43 (2.17), 46 (2.24), 198 (7.6)
Approaches to inquiry, 76 (3.4), 95 (Table 3.2), 98 (Table 3.2), 99
(Table 3.2), 102 (3.14)
Appropriateness, of journal, 373 (12.2)
Approximate date, references with, 325 (10.2)
Approximate replication, 7 (1.4)
Apps. See Mobile apps
A priori comparisons, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.9)
Arab Americans, 144 (5.7)
Arabic numerals, 181 (6.37), 190 (6.51), 200 (7.10), 207 (7.20), 227
(7.24), 232 (7.25)
Archived work
citing, 258 (8.5)
reference example for, 346 (10.13)
references to, 290 (9.16), 296–297 (9.30)
Article numbers, 294–295 (9.27), 318 (10.1)
Article proofs, 390–392 (12.19)
Articles. See also Journal articles
constitutional, 367 (11.9)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 639 ---

magazine, 265 (8.14), 317 (10.1), 320 (10.1)
newspaper, 317 (10.1), 320 (10.1)
Artist
recording, 341, 344–345 (10.13)
visual, 341, 346–347 (10.14)
Artwork, references to, 346 (10.14)
Asian, 143 (5.7)
Asian American, 143 (5.7)
Asian Canadian, 143 (5.7)
Asian origin, people of, 143 (5.7)
Associate editors, 377 (12.6)
Asterisks, for studies in meta-analysis, 309 (9.52), 309 (Figure 9.4)
Attribution, copyright. See Copyright attribution
Audiobooks
quoting from, 274 (8.28)
references to, 321–323 (10.2), 326–327 (10.3)
Audio recordings, of speech, 346 (10.13)
Audiovisual media, 313, 341–347 (10.12–10.14)
audiovisual works, 342–344 (10.12)
audio works, 344–346 (10.13)
visual works, 346–347 (10.14)
Audiovisual works
direct quotation from, 274 (8.28)
reference examples, 342–344 (10.12)
reissued, 265 (8.15), 302 (9.41)
Audio works, references to, 344–346 (10.13)
Australia, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Author(s), 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2). See also Group
authors
affiliation of, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 33–35 (2.6),
34 (Table 2.2)
anonymous, 264–265 (8.14), 289 (9.12), 306 (9.49)
conflicts of interest for, 23 (1.20)
copyright on unpublished manuscripts for, 26 (1.24)
correspondence during publication by, 383 (12.12)
defined, 285–286 (9.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 640 ---

editor in place of, 287 (9.10)
first, 25 (9.46), 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
intellectual property rights during review process for, 25–26 (1.23)
multiple, 34–35 (2.6), 305 (9.46), 317 (10.1)
number of, in citation, 51, 56, 57, 61, 265–267 (8.17)
order of, in byline, 25 (1.22)
same date and, works with, 51, 58, 267 (8.19), 305–306 (9.47)
with same surname, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
with same surname, citations for, 267–268 (8.20)
unknown, 264–265 (8.14), 306 (9.49)
works without, 265 (8.14), 289 (9.12), 306 (9.49), 325 (10.2), 329
(10.3)
Author–date citation system, 257 (8.4), 261–262 (8.10), 267 (8.19)
Authored books, reference examples, 321–322 (10.2)
Author element (reference), 283 (9.4), 285–289 (9.7–9.12)
definition of author for, 285–286 (9.7)
format of, 286–287 (9.8)
group authors in, 288–289 (9.11)
identification of specialized roles in, 287–288 (9.10)
spelling and capitalization, 287 (9.9)
variations in, 314–315
for works without authors, 289 (9.12)
Author name
as element of paper, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 33
(2.5), 34 (Table 2.2)
reference examples, 317 (10.1), 318 (10.1), 320 (10.1), 322 (10.2),
325 (10.2), 326–328 (10.3), 333 (10.5), 336 (10.8), 337 (10.8),
338 (10.9), 340 (10.11), 341 (10.11), 343 (10.12), 344 (10.12),
345 (10.13), 346 (10.13), 346 (10.14), 351 (10.16)
in references, 287 (9.9), 304 (9.45)
Author notes
as element of paper, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 35–37 (2.7), 38
(Figure 2.3)
reporting standards for, 77 (Table 3.1), 106 (Table 3.3)
Authorship, 15 (1.14), 19 (1.14), 24 (1.21), 25 (1.22), 37 (2.7), 260
(8.9), 382 (12.11), 393 (12.22)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 641 ---

B
Back-translation, 85 (3.6)
Bar graphs, 233 (7.36), 234 (Figure 7.2)
Baseline data, 89 (3.7)
Bayesian techniques, 93 (3.11)
“Because,” 123 (4.22)
“Between . . . and,” 125 (4.24)
Bias, 131
Bias-free language, 131–149 (5.1–5.10)
for age, 135–136 (5.3)
for disability, 136–137 (5.4)
for gender, 138–141 (5.5)
general guidelines, 132–134 (5.1–5.2)
and intersectionality, 148–149 (5.10)
for participation in research, 141–142 (5.6)
for racial and ethnic identity, 142–145 (5.7)
for sexual orientation, 145–147 (5.8)
for socioeconomic status, 147–148 (5.9)
topic-specific, 135–149 (5.3–5.10)
Bibliographies, annotated, 9 (1.10), 307 (9.51), 308 (Figure 9.3)
Bill of Rights, U.S., 368 (11.9)
Bills, federal, 364 (11.6)
Binaries, terms that imply, 140–141 (5.5)
Biological data, 230–231 (7.31), 234 (7.36), 249–250 (Figures
7.19–7.21)
Black, 143 (5.7)
Blind reviews. See masked reviews
Block quotations, 46 (2.24), 64, 272–273 (8.27), 277 (8.33)
Blogs, 66, 320 (10.1)
The Bluebook, 355, 355–356 (11.1), 356 (11.2), 361 (11.5), 363 (11.5)
Body
table, 45 (2.21), 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 202–203 (7.13)
text. See Text (body)
Bold type, 187 (6.44)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 642 ---

Book(s). See also Edited book chapters
chapter in edited book reprinted from, 327–328 (10.3)
with no author, 265 (8.14)
references to, 66, 321–324 (10.2)
in series or multivolume works, 292 (9.20)
source element for, 293 (9.23)
title element for, 291–292 (9.18–9.20)
Book reviews, 9 (1.9), 335 (10.7)
Borders, table, 205–206 (7.17)
“Both . . . and,” 125 (4.24)
Brackets, 209 (7.21), 219 (Table 7.16), 292 (9.21)
Brief reports, 9 (1.9), 331 (10.4)
Bulleted lists, 190–192 (6.51)
“But,” 123 (4.22)
Byline. See Author name
C
Callouts, 40–41 (2.13), 54, 55, 197–198 (7.5)
Canada, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Canonical form, for tables and figures, 196 (7.2), 206 (7.21)
Canonically numbered sections, works with, 274 (8.28), 303 (9.42)
Capitalization, 165–170 (6.13–6.21)
author’s name, 287 (9.9), 346 (10.13)
at beginning of sentence, 165 (6.13)
concepts, 166–167 (6.16)
diseases, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
disorders, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
within figure images, 227 (7.26)
hypotheses, 166–167 (6.16)
job titles and positions, 166 (6.14)
laws, 167 (6.16)
models, 166–167 (6.16)
names of conditions or groups, 169 (6.20)
names of factors, variables, and effects, 169–170 (6.21)
nouns followed by numerals or letters, 168–169 (6.19)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 643 ---

principles, 166–167 (6.16)
proper nouns, 165–166 (6.14)
racial and ethnic terms, 142–143 (5.7)
statistical procedures, 166–167 (6.16)
of terms related to Indigenous Peoples, 261 (8.9)
theories, 166–167 (6.16)
therapies, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
titles of tests and measures, 168–169 (6.18)
titles of works and headings in works, 167–168 (6.17)
trade names, 165–166 (6.14)
treatments, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
for units-of-measurement abbreviations, 176 (6.27)
Caption. see Figures, notes
Caribbean, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Cartographer, 347 (10.14)
Cases
legal references to, 357–361 (11.4)
referring to people vs., 141 (5.6)
Case studies, 5–6 (1.2)
Caucasian, 143 (5.7)
Cause-and-effect essays, 9 (1.10)
Cells, table, 200 (Table 7.1), 202–203 (7.13)
Center for Open Science, 14 (1.14)
Changes
in affiliation, 36 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
to quotations, 274–275 (8.30–8.31)
Chapters, book. See Edited book chapters
Characters, special, 44 (2.20)
Charters, 366–368 (11.9)
Charts, 233 (7.36), 236–242 (Figures 7.4–7.11)
for conceptual models, 233 (7.36), 238 (Figure 7.6)
for confirmatory factor analysis, 233 (7.36), 240 (Figure 7.8)
CONSORT flow diagram, 233 (7.36), 237 (Figure 7.5)
flowcharts, 233 (7.36), 236 (Figure 7.4)
mixed methods research, 233 (7.36), 242 (Figure 7.11)
path model, 233 (7.36), 240 (Figure 7.9)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 644 ---

qualitative research, 233 (7.36), 241 (Figure 7.10)
structural equation models, 233 (7.36), 239 (Figure 7.7)
Cheating, contract, 256 (8.2)
Chemical compound abbreviations, 177–178 (6.30)
Chi-square results table, 208 (7.21), 214 (Table 7.7)
Circuit Court, U.S., 358 (11.4), 359–360 (11.4)
Cisgender, 138 (5.5)
Cisgenderism (cissexism), 138 (5.5)
Citation(s), 253–269 (8.1–8.22). See also In-text citations; Narrative
citations; Parenthetical citations
appropriate level of, 253–254 (8.1), 254 (Figure 8.1)
classroom/intranet resources, 259 (8.8)
in figures, 229 (7.26)
general guidelines, 253–258 (8.1–8.6)
interviews, 259 (8.7)
in legal references, 356 (11.2), 358 (11.4)
to other works, quotations with, 276 (8.32), 276 (Figure 8.7)
for paraphrases, 269 (8.23)
personal communications, 260–261 (8.9)
plagiarism and, 254–256 (8.2)
primary and secondary sources, 258 (8.6)
published vs. archival version use, 258 (8.5)
in reference list and text, 257–258 (8.4)
self-plagiarism, 256–257 (8.3)
in tables, 203 (7.13)
works requiring special approach to, 259–261 (8.7–8.9)
Civil Rights Act (1964), 362 (11.5)
Clarity, 113–117 (4.4–4.11)
and anthropomorphism, 117 (4.11)
and contractions/colloquialisms, 116 (4.9)
importance of, 113–114 (4.4)
and jargon, 116 (4.9)
in logical comparisons, 116–117 (4.10)
and sentence/paragraph length, 115 (4.6)
tone, 115–116 (4.7)
Classical literature, 302–303 (9.42), 325–326 (10.2)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 645 ---

Classical works
quoting from, 274 (8.28)
references to, 302–303 (9.42), 325 (10.2)
Classroom resources, 259 (8.8)
Clauses, nonrestrictive and restrictive, 122–123 (4.21)
Clinical trials, 91 (3.9)
Clip art, 346 (10.14), 386 (12.15)
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, 319 (10.1)
Code of ethics, references to, 330–331 (10.4)
Code of Federal Regulations, 365–366 (11.7)
Collaborations, professional–student, 25 (1.22)
Collective nouns, 119 (4.15)
Colloquialisms, 116 (4.8)
Colon, 156–157 (6.5), 171 (6.22)
Color, in figures, 228 (7.26)
Column headings, 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.12)
Columns, confidence intervals in, 209 (7.21), 220 (Table 7.17)
Column spanners, 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.12)
Comma, 155–156 (6.3), 171 (6.22), 181 (6.38)
Comments, 9 (1.9), 320 (10.1)
Communications, personal, 65, 260–261 (8.9)
Comparative essays, 10 (1.10)
Comparisons
logical, 116–117 (4.10)
model, 209 (7.21), 221–223 (Tables 7.19–7.21)
parallel construction for, 145 (5.7)
post hoc, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.9)
a priori, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.9)
Complete sentences, 190–192 (6.52)
Complex experimental design, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table 7.5)
Composers, 341, 344–345 (10.13)
Compound subjects, 119–120 (4.15)
Compound units of measurement, 176 (6.27)
Compound words, 162–163 (6.12), 163 (Table 6.1), 164 (Table 6.3)
Computer software, 269 (8.22), 313, 338–339 (10.10)
Concentrations, abbreviations in, 177 (6.30)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 646 ---

Concepts, capitalization for, 166–167 (6.16)
Conceptual models, 233 (7.36), 238 (Figure 7.6)
Conceptual replication, 7 (1.4)
Conciseness, 113–117 (4.4–4.11)
in abstracts, 74 (3.3)
importance of, 113–114 (4.4)
and sentence/paragraph length, 115 (4.6)
in tables, 199 (7.8), 203 (7.13)
tone, 115–116 (4.7)
and wordiness/redundancy, 114–115 (4.5)
Conclusions, JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1)
Condescending terminology, 137 (5.4)
Conditional acceptance, of manuscript, 380 (12.8)
Conditions, names of, 169 (6.20)
Conference presentations, references to, 36 (2.7), 297–298 (9.31)
examples, 66, 332–333 (10.5)
source element for, 293 (9.23)
Conference sessions, 332 (10.5)
Confidence intervals
for figures, 225 (7.22)
reporting standards on, 88 (3.7)
statistics for, 183 (6.43)
in tables, 205 (7.16), 209 (7.21), 219 (Table 7.16), 220 (Table
7.17)
tables without, 209 (7.21), 219 (Table 7.15)
Confidentiality, 16 (1.15), 22 (1.19), 278 (8.36)
Confirmatory factor analysis
model comparison table, 209 (7.21), 223 (Table 7.21)
results figure, 233 (7.36), 240 (Figure 7.8)
Conflicts of interest, 23–24 (1.20), 36 (2.7), 384 (12.13)
Congressional Record, 357 (Table 11.2), 364 (11.6)
Conjunctions, 123 (4.22), 125 (4.24)
Consent, 16–17 (1.15)
Consistency, 102 (3.14), 285 (9.6)
CONSORT flow diagram, 233 (7.36), 237 (Figure 7.5)
Constitution, U.S., 366–367 (11.9)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 647 ---

Constitutions, 366–368 (11.9)
Consulting editors, 377 (12.6)
Contact information, 37 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
Content footnotes, 40 (2.13)
Continuity, 111–113 (4.1–4.3)
importance of, 111–112 (4.1)
and noun strings, 112–113 (4.3)
and transitions, 112 (4.2)
Contract cheating, 256 (8.2)
Contractions, 116 (4.8)
Contrast, for figures, 228 (7.26)
Coordinating conjunctions, 125 (4.24)
Copyeditors, 126 (4.29)
Copyright
permission to reprint/adapt copyrighted works, 277 (8.34)
in publication process, 384–390 (12.14–12.18)
published article policies, 392–393 (12.20)
status of, 386–387 (12.16)
on unpublished manuscripts, 26 (1.24)
works without indicated, 387 (12.16)
Copyright attribution
in footnotes, 40 (2.13)
formats for, 389–390 (12.18), 390 (Table 12.1)
materials requiring, 385–386 (12.15)
and plagiarism, 255 (8.2)
for tables and figures, 235 (Figure 7.3), 391 (Table 12.2)
Cornell Law School, 356 (11.1)
Correction notices, 13 (1.13), 393–394 (12.22)
Correlation
sample table for one sample, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.10)
sample table for two samples, 208 (7.21), 216 (Table 7.11)
Correlational studies, 91 (3.9)
Correspondence, during publication process, 383 (12.12)
Course name, on title page, 30 (2.3), 32 (Figure 2.2)
Court decisions, 357–361 (11.4)
Court jurisdiction, 358 (11.4)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 648 ---

Covariates, 79 (Table 3.1), 84 (3.6)
Cover letters, 382 (12.10), 382–383 (12.11)
Cover of book, editor credited on, 322 (10.2)
Creative Commons licenses, 386 (12.15), 387 (12.16), 389 (12.18),
390n.a (Table 12.1), 391 (Table 12.2)
Credit. See also Works credited
for editor, on book cover, 322 (10.2)
publication, 24 (1.21)
for translator, 301–302 (9.39)
CRediT taxonomy of authorship, 24 (1.21)
Crossref, 298 (9.34)
Currency symbols, 187 (6.44)
D
Dangling modifiers, 124 (4.23)
Dash, 53, 157 (6.6), 270 (8.25), 294 (9.25)
Data
analysis, 14 (1.14)
baseline, 89 (3.7)
biological, 230–231 (7.31), 234 (7.36), 249–250 (Figures
7.19–7.21)
copyright attribution for, 385 (12.15)
electrophysiological, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.32), 234 (7.36), 249
(Figure 7.19)
genetic, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.34), 234 (7.36), 250 (Figure 7.21)
graphical presentation of, 196–197 (7.3), 225 (7.22)
imaging, 231 (7.33)
missing, 87 (3.7)
quantitative, 209 (7.21), 224 (Table 7.23)
radiological, 230–231 (7.30), 231 (7.33), 234 (7.36), 249 (Figure
7.20)
raw, 16 (1.15), 338 (10.9)
recording, 101 (3.14)
retention of, 13 (1.14)
sharing, 14 (1.14), 14–16 (1.14), 16–17 (1.15), 36 (2.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 649 ---

source, 14 (1.14)
Data analysis
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 97–98 (Table 3.2), 101–103 (3.14), 102 (3.14)
JARS–Quant on, 80–81 (Table 3.1), 87–89 (3.7)
Databases. See also Academic research databases
DOIs and URLs for works from, 299 (9.34)
ERIC, 297 (9.30), 337 (10.8)
information about, in references, 296–297 (9.30)
lack of indexing in, 375 (12.4)
records in, for tests, 341 (10.11)
reference examples, 334 (10.6)
references to works from, 282 (9.3), 319 (10.1), 336 (10.8), 337
(10.8)
Data collection
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 97 (Table 3.2), 101 (3.14)
JARS–Quant on, 79 (Table 3.1), 84 (3.6)
Data deidentification, 22 (1.19)
Data diagnostics, 80 (Table 3.1), 85–86 (3.6)
Data points, figure, 226 (Figure 7.1)
Data Privacy Lab website, 22 (1.19)
Data safety and monitoring, 79 (Table 3.1), 91 (3.9), 96 (Table 3.2),
101 (3.14)
Data sets, reference to, 313, 337–338 (10.9)
Data sources, JARS–Qual on, 96 (Table 3.2), 99–100 (3.14)
Data transformations, 80 (Table 3.1), 97 (Table 3.2), 101 (3.14), 108
(Table 3.3)
Date(s)
author–date citation system, 257 (8.4), 261–262 (8.10), 267 (8.19)
of decision, 358 (11.4)
defined, 289 (9.13)
due, 30 (2.3), 32 (Figure 2.2)
of last review, 290 (9.15)
of last update, 290 (9.15)
references for works without, 291 (9.17), 324–325 (10.2), 328
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 650 ---

(10.3), 340–341 (10.11), 347 (10.14), 349–350 (10.15),
351–352 (10.16)
retrieval, 290 (9.16), 319 (10.1), 325 (10.2), 328 (10.3), 347
(10.14), 349 (10.15), 350 (10.15), 352 (10.16)
same author and, works with, 51, 58, 267 (8.19), 305–306 (9.47)
for translated, reprinted, republished, and reissued works, 265
(8.15)
webpages or websites without, 351–352 (10.16)
Date element (reference), 283 (9.4), 289–291 (9.13–9.17)
definition of date for, 289 (9.13)
format of, 289–290 (9.14)
for online works, 290 (9.15)
retrieval dates, 290 (9.16)
variations in, 315
for works without dates, 291 (9.17)
Deceptive journals and deceptive publishing, 374–376 (12.4)
Decimal fractions, 180–181 (6.36)
Decimal values, in tables, 202 (7.13)
Decked heads, 200 (Table 7.1), 201–202 (7.12)
Deficit-based language, 148 (5.9)
Deidentification of data, 22 (1.19)
Demographic characteristics of research participants
JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1), 82–83 (3.6)
relevant, and bias reduction, 132 (5.1)
sample table, 208 (7.21), 210 (Table 7.2)
Descriptive statistics tables, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table 7.6)
Design, table and figure, 195–196 (7.2)
Desk rejection, 381 (12.8)
“Despite,” 123 (4.22)
Diacritical marks, 44 (2.20)
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), 157
(6.6), 324 (10.2)
Diagnostic manuals, 324 (10.2)
Dictionaries, 161–162 (6.11), 324–325 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
Digital archive, radio interviews in, 346 (10.13)
Digital object identifiers. See DOIs
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 651 ---

Director, 288 (9.10), 341, 342–343 (10.12)
Direct quotations, 270–274 (8.25–8.29), 272 (Table 8.2)
accuracy of, 274 (8.29)
block quotations, 272–273 (8.27)
examples, 272 (Table 8.2)
from material without page numbers, 273–274 (8.28)
preexisting, 277 (8.33)
principles of, 270–271 (8.25)
short quotations, 271 (8.26)
Direct replication, 6–7 (1.4)
Disability, language related to, 133 (5.1), 136–137 (5.4)
Disclosures, in author note, 36 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
Discussion (section)
adapting dissertation/thesis, 372 (12.1)
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 103–104 (3.16)
JARS–Quant on, 80–81 (Table 3.1), 89–90 (3.8)
of quantitative article, 4 (1.1)
Diseases, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
Disorders, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
Displayed equations, 45 (2.21), 189 (6.47)
Dissertations, 10 (1.10)
adapting, into a journal article, 371–373 (12.1)
margins for, 45 (2.22)
references to, 36 (2.7), 67, 297 (9.30), 333–334 (10.6)
District Court, U.S., 358 (11.4), 360 (11.4)
DOIs (digital object identifiers)
format of, 299–300 (9.35)
journal article references without, 58, 317 (10.1)
line breaks in, 45 (2.23)
reference examples with, 317 (10.1), 321 (10.2), 322 (10.2), 326
(10.3)
in references, 282 (9.3), 298–299 (9.34)
short, 66, 67, 300 (9.36), 317 (10.1), 327 (10.3)
Draft manuscripts, 126 (4.27), 127 (4.30), 258 (8.5)
Drawings, 233 (7.36), 243 (Figures 7.12–7.13)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 652 ---

DSM (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders), 157
(6.6), 324 (10.2)
Due date, 30 (2.3), 32 (Figure 2.2)
Duplicate publication, 17–19 (1.16), 256–257 (8.3)
E
Ebooks, 321–322 (10.2), 323 (10.2), 326–327 (10.3)
Edited book chapters
articles republished as, 20 (1.16)
reference examples, 66, 326–328 (10.3)
source element for references to, 293 (9.25), 295 (9.28)
title element for references to, 291 (9.18)
works reprinted as, 302 (9.40)
Edited books, references to, 322 (10.2)
Edition, titles including, 321 (10.2), 323–325 (10.2), 326–328 (10.3)
Editor(s)
conflicts of interest for, 23–24 (1.20)
credited on authored book cover, 322 (10.2)
in place of author, 287 (9.10), 319 (10.1), 322–325 (10.2)
roles of, 376–378 (12.6)
Editorial publication process, 376–381 (12.5–12.8)
about, 376 (12.5), 377 (Figure 12.1)
editors’ roles in, 376–378 (12.6)
manuscript decisions in, 379–381 (12.8)
peer review process, 378–379 (12.7)
Editorial rejection, 381 (12.8)
Editorials, references to, 320–321 (10.1)
Editorial “we,” 120 (4.17)
Editor-in-chief, 377 (12.6)
Effect sizes, 89 (3.7)
“Either . . . or,” 125 (4.24)
Electronic archive, 296–297 (9.30), 394 (12.23)
Electrophysiological data, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.32), 234 (7.36), 249
(Figure 7.19)
eLocator, 294 (9.27), 318 (10.1)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 653 ---

Em dash, 157 (6.6)
Emphasis, adding, 275 (8.31)
Empty cells, table, 202–203 (7.13)
Enacted federal bills or resolutions, 364 (11.6)
Encyclopedia, 324–325 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
En dash, 53, 157 (6.6), 270 (8.25), 294 (9.25)
Epigraphs, 277–278 (8.35)
Episodes
podcast, 295 (9.28), 345 (10.13)
reviews of, 335 (10.7)
TV series, 295 (9.28), 335 (10.7), 343 (10.12)
Epub ahead of print. See Advance online publication
Equations, 188–189 (6.46–6.48)
displayed, 45 (2.21), 189 (6.47)
preparing, for publication, 189 (6.48)
spacing in, 45 (2.21)
in text, 189 (6.46)
Equipment
in appendices, 41 (2.14)
for data collection, 84 (3.6)
references to, 338–340 (10.10)
writing concisely about, 113 (4.4)
ERIC database, 297 (9.30), 337 (10.8)
Error bars, 225 (7.22), 228 (7.26), 230 (7.28)
Errors, correcting, 13 (1.13), 393–394 (12.22)
Eskimo, 144 (5.7)
Essays
cause-and-effect, 9 (1.10)
comparative, 10 (1.10)
expository, 10 (1.10)
narrative, 10 (1.10)
persuasive, 10 (1.10)
Essentialism, 145 (5.7)
“Et al.” citations, 63, 266–267 (8.17), 267 (8.18)
Ethical compliance, 11–12 (1.11), 26 (1.25), 384 (12.13)
Ethical principles, 11–26 (1.11–1.25)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 654 ---

ensuring accuracy of findings, 11–21 (1.11–1.17)
intellectual property rights, 24–26 (1.21–1.25)
and plagiarism, 255–256 (8.2)
and publication process, 383–384 (12.13)
rights/welfare of research participants and subjects, 21–24
(1.18–1.20)
Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct (APA), 11, 12
(1.12), 13, 14 (1.14), 17 (1.16), 21 (1.18), 23 (1.20)
Ethnicity and ethnic identity, 133 (5.1), 142–145 (5.7)
European, 143 (5.7)
European origin, people of, 143 (5.7)
Event-related potentials, 234 (7.36), 249 (Figure 7.19)
Every Student Succeeds Act, 362 (11.5)
Exact replication, 7 (1.4)
Exclamation point, title ending in, 350 (10.15)
Exclusion criteria, 78 (Table 3.1), 83 (3.6), 93 (3.12), 97 (Table 3.2),
101 (3.14)
Executive materials, 365–366 (11.7)
Executive orders, 366 (11.7)
Executive producer, 341, 343 (10.12)
Experimental designs
complex, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table 7.5)
JARS–Quant for, 91 (3.9)
Experimental manipulations, 85 (3.6), 89 (3.7)
Experimental setup, 233 (7.36), 243 (Figure 7.12)
Experimental stimuli, 233 (7.36), 243 (Figure 7.13)
Experts, guest, 342 (10.12)
Explanation
changes to quotation not requiring, 274–275 (8.30)
changes to quotation requiring, 275 (8.31), 275 (Figure 8.6)
Exploratory hypotheses, 86 (3.6)
Expository essays, 10 (1.10)
External replication, 6 (1.4)
F
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 655 ---

Facebook, references to, 349–350 (10.15)
Factor analysis, 209 (7.21), 218 (Table 7.14)
Factors, names of, 169–170 (6.21)
Fair use, 387–389 (12.17)
False hierarchies, 134 (5.2)
Federal bills or resolutions, 364 (11.6)
Federal court decisions, 358 (11.4)
Federal Register, 357 (Table 11.2), 365 (11.7)
Federal regulations, 357 (Table 11.2), 365–366 (11.7)
Federal Reporter, 357 (Table 11.2), 358 (11.4)
Federal reports, 365 (11.6)
Federal statutes, 361–363 (11.5)
Federal Supplements, 357 (Table 11.2), 358 (11.4)
Federal testimony, 363 (11.6)
Figure-only appendices, 41–42 (2.14)
Figures, 225–250 (7.22–7.36)
abbreviations in, 174 (6.25), 205 (7.15)
adapting dissertation or thesis, 372 (12.1)
biological data in, 230–231 (7.31)
callout for, 55
callouts for, 197–198 (7.5)
capitalization in, 168 (6.17), 227 (7.26)
caption, 229 (7.28)
checklist, 232 (7.35)
citations in, 229 (7.26)
color used in, 228 (7.26)
components, 225–226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1)
construction principles, 225 (7.22)
copyright attribution, 385 (12.15), 391 (Table 12.2)
design and preparation, 195–196 (7.2)
electrophysiological data in, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.32)
format for, 197 (7.4)
general guidelines, 195–199 (7.1–7.7)
genetic data in, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.34)
and graphical vs. textual presentation, 196–197 (7.3)
gridlines and 3-D effects in, 228 (7.26)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 656 ---

images, 227–229 (7.26)
indentation for, 46 (2.24)
legends, 229 (7.27)
line spacing in, 45 (2.21)
location of, 41 (2.14), 43 (2.17)
notes, 40 (2.13), 60, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 229 (7.28)
numbers, 55, 60, 197–198 (7.5), 225 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 227
(7.24), 227 (7.26)
panels in, 229 (7.26)
photographs, 230 (7.30)
placement of, 198 (7.6)
purpose of, 195 (7.1)
radiological data in, 230–231 (7.30), 231 (7.33)
relations between, 230 (7.29)
reprinting or adapting, 198–199 (7.7)
shading in, 227–228 (7.26)
size and proportion of elements in, 227 (7.26)
spelling in, 227 (7.26)
tables vs., 195
titles, 60, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 227 (7.25)
Figures, sample, 60, 233–234 (7.36)
for biological data, 234 (7.36), 249–250 (Figures 7.19–7.21)
charts, 233 (7.36), 236–242 (Figures 7.4–7.11)
drawings, 233 (7.36), 243 (Figures 7.12–7.13)
graphs, 233 (7.36), 234–235 (Figures 7.2–7.3)
maps, 233 (7.36), 244 (Figure 7.14)
multipanel, 234 (7.36), 248 (Figure 7.18)
photographs, 233–234 (7.36), 247 (Figure 7.17)
plots, 233 (7.36), 245–246 (Figures 7.15–7.16)
Films
references to, 342–343 (10.12)
reviews of, 335 (10.7)
Financial support, acknowledging, 36–37 (2.7)
Findings
depictions of, 103 (3.15)
description of, 103 (3.15)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 657 ---

development of, 103 (3.15)
ensuring accuracy of, 11–21 (1.11–1.17)
interpreting meaning of, 104 (3.16)
JARS–Qual on, 103 (3.15), 104 (3.16)
JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1)
Findings (section)
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 99 (Table 3.2), 103 (3.15)
First author
multiple works by same, 304–305 (9.46)
with same surname, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
First-person pronouns
example use of, 61
guidelines regarding, 120 (4.16)
Florida Statutes, 361 (11.5), 363 (11.5)
Flow, 111–113 (4.1–4.3)
importance of, 111–112 (4.1)
and noun strings, 112–113 (4.3)
participant, 80 (Table 3.1), 86 (3.7), 236 (Figure 7.4)
and transitions, 112 (4.2)
Flowcharts, 233 (7.36), 236 (Figure 7.4)
Flow diagrams, CONSORT, 233 (7.36), 237 (Figure 7.5)
fMRI, sample figure, 234 (7.36), 249 (Figure 7.20)
Font, 44 (2.19), 227 (7.26)
Footer, page, 40 (2.13), 55
Footnotes, 40–41 (2.13)
acknowledgments in, 37 (2.7)
font for, 44 (2.19)
location of, 41 (2.14), 43 (2.17)
in sample paper, 55
spacing in, 45 (2.21)
Format, 43–46 (2.16–2.25)
abbreviations, 174 (6.26)
abstract, 38 (2.9)
appendix, 41–42 (2.14)
author affiliation, 34–35 (2.6)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 658 ---

author element of reference, 286–287 (9.8)
author name (byline), 33 (2.5)
author note, 37 (2.7)
copyright attribution, 389–390 (12.18), 390 (Table 12.1)
date element of reference, 289–290 (9.14)
DOIs and URLs, 299–300 (9.35)
figure notes, 229 (7.28)
figures, 197 (7.4)
font, 44 (2.19)
footnotes, 40–41 (2.13)
headings, 48 (2.27), 48 (Table 2.3)
importance of, 43 (2.16)
keywords, 39 (2.10)
line spacing, 45 (2.21)
margins, 45 (2.22)
order of pages, 43 (2.17)
page header, 44 (2.18)
paper length, 46 (2.25)
paragraph alignment, 45 (2.23)
paragraph indentation, 45–46 (2.24)
reference list, 40 (2.12), 303 (9.43)
running head, 37 (2.8)
source element of reference, 293–294 (9.24)
special characters, 44 (2.20)
table notes, 204 (7.14)
tables, 197 (7.4)
text (body), 39 (2.11)
title, 32–33 (2.4)
title element of reference, 291–292 (9.19)
“For more” citations, 63, 263 (8.11)
Formulas, for statistics, 182 (6.42)
Fractions, 180–181 (6.36)
F ratios, 182 (6.43)
Full federal hearings, 364 (11.6)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 659 ---

G
Gay, 146–147 (5.8)
GDPR, 15 (1.14)
Gender, language related to, 120–121 (4.18), 138–141 (5.5)
Gender diversity, 139 (5.5)
Gender expansiveness, 139 (5.5)
Gender identity, 133 (5.1), 138 (5.5)
Genderism, 138 (5.5)
Gender-nonconforming people, 138–139 (5.5)
Gender variance, 139 (5.5)
Gene names, abbreviations for, 178 (6.31)
Generalizability, 81 (Table 3.1)
General notes, 203 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
Genetic data, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.34), 234 (7.36), 250 (Figure
7.21)
Genetic maps, 234 (7.36), 250 (Figure 7.21)
Given name, order of surname and, 304 (9.45)
Goals, research, 76 (3.4), 95 (Table 3.2), 106 (Table 3.3)
Government agencies
in references, 288–289 (9.10), 329 (10.4), 330 (10.4), 338 (10.9),
348–350 (10.15), 351 (10.16), 352 (10.16)
reports by individuals at, 330 (10.4)
Government employees, 330 (10.4), 392–393 (12.20)
Grammar, 117–125 (4.12–4.24)
pronouns, 120–123 (4.16–4.21)
and sentence construction, 123–125 (4.22–4.24)
verbs, 117–120 (4.12–4.15)
Grammar-checking, 127 (4.30)
Grants, references to, 331 (10.4)
Graphical presentations of data, 196–197 (7.3), 225 (7.22)
Graphs, 233 (7.36), 234–235 (Figures 7.2–7.3)
Gray literature, 292 (9.21), 329–332 (10.4)
Grayscale, figures in, 228 (7.26)
Greek letters, 44 (2.20)
Greek works, ancient, 325 (10.2)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 660 ---

Gridlines, figure, 228 (7.26)
Groundedness, 102 (3.14)
Group authors
abbreviations for, 268 (8.21)
affiliations of, 35 (2.6)
reference examples, 61, 317 (10.1), 324–325 (10.2), 328 (10.3),
329–332 (10.4), 338 (10.9), 339–340 (10.10), 340 (10.11),
343–344 (10.12), 347 (10.14), 348–350 (10.15), 351–352
(10.16)
in references, 288–289 (9.11)
Groups, names of, 169 (6.20)
Guest experts, 342 (10.12)
H
Hashtags, 348 (10.15)
Hawaii, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Hawaiian Native, 144 (5.7)
Header, page, 44 (2.18)
Headings
column, 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.12)
decked, 200 (Table 7.1), 201–202 (7.12)
indentation for, 46 (2.24), 201 (7.12)
levels of, 47–48 (2.27), 48 (Figure 2.4), 48 (Table 2.3), 49 (Figure
2.5)
number of, 48 (2.27)
and organization, 47 (2.26)
running head, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 37 (2.8), 44 (2.18), 51
in sample paper, 51–57, 62–64
table, 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 201–202 (7.12)
within works, 167–168 (6.17)
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPPA), 15 (1.14),
22 (1.19)
Hearings, federal, 364 (11.6)
Hidden publishers, 375 (12.4)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 661 ---

Hierarchical regression statistics, 182 (6.43), 209 (7.21), 221 (Table
7.18)
Hierarchies, false, 134 (5.2)
Highlights, Instagram, 350 (10.15)
HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act), 15 (1.14),
22 (1.19)
Hispanic ethnicity, people of, 144–145 (5.7)
Historical antecedents, 76 (3.4)
Host, 341, 342 (10.12), 345 (10.13)
House of Representatives, 357 (Table 11.2)
reports submitted to, 365 (11.6)
resolutions enacted by, 364 (11.6)
HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee, 177 (6.31)
Human research participants. See Research participants
Hyperlinks, DOI and URL, 299–300 (9.35)
Hyphen
in author’s name, 318 (10.1), 322 (10.2), 328 (10.3), 337 (10.8),
340 (10.11), 341 (10.11)
in compound words, 162–163 (6.12), 163–164 (Tables 6.1–6.3)
en dash vs., 157 (6.6)
minus sign vs., 188 (6.44)
Hypothesis
capitalization for, 166–167 (6.16)
exploratory, 86 (3.6)
JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1), 81 (Table 3.1)
null hypothesis statistical significance testing, 87 (3.7)
support of original, 81 (Table 3.1)
I
“I,” use of, 120 (4.16)
IACUC. See Institutional animal care and use committee
ICD (International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related
Health Problems), 157 (6.6), 324 (10.2)
Identifiable people, photographs of, 388 (12.17)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 662 ---

Identification numbers, in titles, 329–331 (10.4), 337 (10.8), 338
(10.9), 341 (10.11)
Identification procedures, JARS–Qual on, 101 (3.14)
Identifying material, disguising, 22 (1.19)
Identity
gender, 133 (5.1), 138 (5.5)
racial and ethnic, 133 (5.1), 142–145 (5.7)
Identity-first language, 134 (5.2), 136–137 (5.4)
Images
copyright attribution, 385 (12.15)
figure, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 227–229 (7.26)
stock, 346 (10.14), 386 (12.15)
Imaging data, 231 (7.33)
Impact statement, 395 (12.24)
Implications, study, 81 (Table 3.1), 90 (3.8), 104 (3.16)
“Inch,” abbreviation for, 154 (6.2)
Inclusion criteria, 78 (Table 3.1), 83 (3.6), 93 (3.12), 97 (Table 3.2),
101 (3.14)
Indentation, 45–46 (2.24), 201 (7.12)
Indian, 144 (5.7)
Indicative mood, 119 (4.14)
Indigenous Peoples
capitalization of terms related to, 261 (8.9)
citation of Oral Traditions and Traditional Knowledge, 260–261
(8.9)
terms for, 144 (5.7)
Inferential statistical tests, 88 (3.7)
Infographics, 346–347 (10.14)
Informally published works, 290 (9.14), 335–336 (10.8), 337 (10.8)
Informal solicitation, 374 (12.4)
In-press works, 318 (10.1)
Inquiry, approaches to, 76 (3.4), 95 (Table 3.2), 98 (Table 3.2), 99
(Table 3.2), 102 (3.14)
Insertions, into quotations, 275 (8.31)
Instagram, references to, 350 (10.15)
Institutional animal care and use committee (IACUC), 3, 21 (1.18), 384
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 663 ---

(12.13)
Institutional archive, repository, or database, 335 (10.8), 337 (10.8)
Institutional review board (IRB), 3, 11–12 (1.11), 26 (1.25), 79 (Table
3.1), 83 (3.6), 96 (Table 3.2), 384 (12.13)
Instructor
of course, 30 (2.3), 32 (Figure 2.2), 347 (10.14)
of webinar, 341, 344 (10.12)
Instrumentation, 79 (Table 3.1), 338–340 (10.10)
Integration, mixed methods research, 105 (3.18)
Integrity, methodological, 95 (Table 3.2), 102–103 (3.14), 108
(Table 3.3)
Intellectual property rights, 24–26 (1.21–1.25)
Interest, conflicts of, 23–24 (1.20), 36 (2.7), 384 (12.13)
International conventions, 368 (11.10)
International DOI Foundation, 298 (9.34), 300 (9.35), 300 (9.36)
International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health
Problems (ICD), 157 (6.6), 324 (10.2)
Internet Archive, 301 (9.37)
Intersectionality, language related to, 148–149 (5.10)
Interventions
data analysis for studies with, 89 (3.7)
JARS–Quant on, 85 (3.6)
names of, 166 (6.16), 167 (6.16)
Interviews
protecting confidentiality in relation to, 22 (1.19)
published vs. personal vs. participant, 259 (8.7)
references to, 320 (10.1), 346 (10.13)
with research participants, 278 (8.36)
In-text citations, 261–269 (8.10–8.22)
with annotated bibliographies, 307 (9.51)
author–date citation system, 261–262 (8.10)
for authors with same surname, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
avoiding ambiguity in, 267 (8.18)
basic styles, 266 (Table 8.1)
and general mentions of sources, 268–269 (8.22)
for group authors, 268 (8.21)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 664 ---

for legal materials, 357 (11.3)
for multiple works, 51, 52, 55–57, 61, 263–264 (8.12)
number of authors to include, 51, 56, 57, 61, 265–267 (8.17)
parenthetical and narrative, 262–263 (8.11)
and reference list entries, 261–262 (8.10), 262 (Figure 8.2), 314
repeated, 61, 63, 265 (8.16), 266 (Figure 8.3), 270 (8.24), 271
(Figure 8.5)
with same author and date, 267 (8.19)
with “see also,” 263 (8.12)
for specific parts of source, 264 (8.13)
for statutes, 361 (11.5)
with translated, reprinted, republished, or reissued dates, 265
(8.15)
with unknown/anonymous authors, 264–265 (8.14)
without dates, 291 (9.17)
Intranet resources, citing, 259 (8.8)
Introduction (section)
adapting dissertation or thesis, 372 (12.1)
defined, 75 (3.4)
headings in, 47 (2.27), 49 (Figure 2.5)
JARS–Mixed on, 106 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 95 (Table 3.2)
JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1)
quantitative article, 4 (1.1)
reporting standards for, 75–76 (3.4)
Inventories, references to, 340–341 (10.11)
Invitation to revise and resubmit, 379–380 (12.8)
IRB. See Institutional review board
Irony, 57, 158 (6.7)
Issue briefs, 331 (10.4)
Issue number, journal, 59, 294 (9.26), 319 (10.1)
Italics, 170–172 (6.22–6.23)
for key terms, 61, 172 (6.22)
for mathematical copy, 188 (6.44)
reverse, 172 (6.23), 335 (10.7)
for symbols, 178 (6.31), 188 (6.44)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 665 ---

for title/names of cases, 358 (11.4)
J
Jargon, 116 (4.9)
JARS. See Journal article reporting standards
JARS–Mixed. See Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards
JARS–Qual. See Qualitative Design Reporting Standards
JARS–Quant. See Quantitative Design Reporting Standards
Job titles and positions, 166 (6.15)
Journal article reporting standards (JARS), 71–108
across research designs, 73–76 (3.3–3.4)
application of, 72 (3.1)
for mixed methods research, 105–108 (3.18)
for qualitative research, 93–105 (3.13–3.17)
for quantitative research, 77–93 (3.5–3.12)
terminology used in, 72–73 (3.2)
Journal articles, 4
adapting dissertations or theses into, 371–372 (12.1)
copyright policies for, 392–393 (12.20)
edited book chapter from, 20 (1.16), 327 (10.3)
literature review, 8 (1.5), 8 (1.6), 75 (3.3)
meta-analytic, 7–8 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3)
methodological, 8–9 (1.8), 75 (3.3)
mixed methods, 6 (1.3), 76 (3.4), 105–108 (3.18)
with no author, citing, 264–265 (8.14)
online sharing of after publication, 394–395 (12.23)
promoting, 395 (12.24)
qualitative, 5–6 (1.2), 76 (3.4)
quantitative, 4–5 (1.1), 76 (3.4)
references to, 58, 59, 66, 283 (Figure 9.1), 316–320 (10.1)
replication, 6–7 (1.4), 74 (3.3)
selecting a journal for, 373 (12.2)
theoretical, 8 (1.7), 75 (3.3)
types of, 4–9 (1.1–1.9)
Journals
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 666 ---

film reviews in, 335 (10.7)
predatory or deceptive, 374–376 (12.4)
preparing manuscript for submission to, 381 (12.9)
prioritizing potential, 374 (12.3)
references to special issue or section in, 59, 319 (10.1)
selecting, for publication, 373 (12.2)
Jurisdictions, 358 (11.4)
K
Key, figure, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 229 (7.27)
Key terms, italics for, 61, 170 (6.22)
Keywords, 38–39 (2.10), 50
Kindle books
quotations from, 274 (8.28)
references to, 321–322 (10.2), 326 (10.3)
L
Labels
section, 46 (2.24), 49 (2.28), 50, 58, 66
sensitivity to, 133–134 (5.2)
x-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1)
y-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1)
Landscape orientation, tables in, 206 (7.18)
Language
bias-free. See Bias-free language
films or videos in another, 343 (10.12)
professional, 114 (4.4), 115–116 (4.7)
textual works in another, 301 (9.38), 318 (10.1), 323 (10.2), 327
(10.3)
Large-scale studies, 19–20 (1.16)
Latin@, Latina, Latino, Latino/a, Latinx, 144–145 (5.7)
Latin abbreviations, 176 (6.29)
Latin America, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Layout, table, 199 (7.8)
Lecture notes, references to, 347 (10.14)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 667 ---

Legal Information Institute, 356 (11.1)
Legal principles, 11–26 (1.11–1.25)
ensuring accuracy of findings, 11–21 (1.11–1.17)
protecting intellectual property rights, 24–26 (1.21–1.25)
protecting rights/welfare of research participants and subjects,
21–24 (1.18–1.20)
Legal references, 314, 355–368 (11.1–11.10)
APA Style vs., 355–356 (11.1), 356 (Table 11.1)
examples of, 357–368 (11.4–11.10)
forms of, 356–357 (11.2)
general guidelines, 355–357 (11.1–11.3)
in-text citation to, 357 (11.3)
Legend, figure, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 229 (7.27)
Legislative materials, 363–365 (11.6)
Length, of paper, 46 (2.25), 372 (12.1)
Lesbian, 134 (5.2), 146 (5.8), 147 (5.8)
Lettered lists, 62, 189 (6.50)
Letters, nouns followed by, 168 (6.19)
Letters to the editor, 9 (1.9)
Level 1 headings, 47 (2.27), 48 (2.27), 48 (Table 2.3), 49 (Figure 2.5),
53–55, 62–64
Level 2 headings, 47 (2.27), 48 (2.27), 48 (Figure 2.4), 48 (Table 2.3),
49 (Figure 2.5), 51–57, 62, 63, 65
Level 3 headings, 47 (2.27), 48 (2.27), 48 (Table 2.3), 49 (Figure 2.5),
56, 57
Level 4 headings, 48 (Table 2.3), 49 (Figure 2.5)
Level 5 headings, 48 (Table 2.3), 49 (Figure 2.5)
LGBTQ, LGBTQ+, LGBTQIA, LGBTQIA+, 146 (5.8)
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (2009), 362 (11.5)
Limitations, study, 90 (3.8), 104 (3.16)
Limited circulation, works of, 18 (1.16), 257 (8.3), 297 (9.30)
Line graphs, 233 (7.36), 235 (Figure 7.3)
Line spacing, 45 (2.21)
Lists, 189–191 (6.49–6.52)
bulleted, 190–191 (6.52)
guidelines, 189 (6.49)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 668 ---

lettered, 62, 189 (6.50)
numbered, 189–190 (6.51)
reference. See Reference list
simple, 189 (6.49)
Literal replication, 7 (1.4)
Literature
classical, 264 (8.13), 274 (8.28), 302–303 (9.42), 325 (10.2)
gray, 292 (9.21), 329–331 (10.4)
Literature review articles, 8 (1.5), 8 (1.6), 75 (3.3)
Locations, works with specific, 297 (9.31), 332–333 (10.5), 346
(10.14)
Logical comparisons, 116–117 (4.10)
Longitudinal studies, 19–20 (1.16), 92 (3.10)
Long paraphrases, 52, 64, 269–270 (8.24), 270 (Figure 8.4)
Long quotations, 270–271 (8.25), 277 (8.34), 386 (12.15)
Long tables, 206 (7.18)
M
Magazine articles, 265 (8.14), 316 (10.1), 320 (10.1)
Manipulations, experimental, 85 (3.6), 89 (3.7)
Manuals, test, scale, or inventory, 340 (10.11)
Manuscript(s)
additional information, for online submission, 382 (12.10)
draft, 126 (4.27), 127 (4.30), 258 (8.5)
in editorial publication process, 379–381 (12.8)
intellectual property rights during review, 25–26 (1.23)
preparation of, 381–384 (12.9–12.13)
reference examples, 336–337 (10.8)
unpublished, copyright on, 26 (1.24)
Manuscript file, 382 (12.10)
Manuscripts in preparation, references to, 336 (10.8)
Māori people, 144 (5.7)
Maps, 233 (7.36), 244 (Figure 7.14), 347 (10.14)
Margins, 45 (2.22)
Masked reviews, 257 (8.3), 378–379 (12.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 669 ---

Masking, reporting standards on, 79 (Table 3.1)
Materials
administrative, 365–366 (11.7)
with copyright attribution requirement, 385–386 (12.15)
legal, 357 (11.3)
legislative, 363–365 (11.6)
reprinting/adapting, 384–385 (12.14)
sharing, 14 (1.14)
supplemental, 41 (2.14), 42–43 (2.15)
without page numbers, quotations from, 273–274 (8.28)
Mathematical copy, 181–188 (6.40–6.45)
formulas for, 181 (6.42)
parentheses and square brackets in, 160 (6.9)
preparing, for publication, 189 (6.48)
presentation for, 181 (6.40)
in standard, bold, and italic type, 187 (6.44)
symbols for, 44 (2.20), 186 (Table 6.5)
Meaningfulness, 102 (3.14)
Measures
JARS–Quant on, 79 (Table 3.1), 84 (3.6)
titles of, 168 (6.18)
Merriam-Webster’s Dictionary, 120–121 (4.18), 127 (4.30), 161 (6.11)
Meta-analysis, 7–8 (1.5)
abstracts for, 74–75 (3.3)
qualitative, 7–8 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3), 104–105 (3.17)
quantitative, 7 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3), 93 (3.12)
references in, 307 (9.52), 309 (Figure 9.4)
sample summary table, 208 (7.21), 212 (Table 7.4)
Metaethnography, 7 (1.5)
Metasynthesis (qualitative meta-analysis), 7–8 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3),
104–105 (3.17)
Method (section)
adapting dissertation or thesis, 372 (12.1)
JARS–Mixed on, 107–108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 94 (3.14), 95–98 (Table 3.2), 99–103 (3.14)
JARS–Quant on, 78–80 (Table 3.1), 82–86 (3.6)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 670 ---

of quantitative articles, 4 (1.1)
Methodological articles, 8–9 (1.8), 75 (3.3)
Methodological integrity, 98 (Table 3.2), 102–103 (3.14), 108 (Table
3.3)
Methods, appropriateness of journal in terms of, 373 (12.2)
Metrication, 174 (6.27)
Middle Eastern origin, people of, 144 (5.7)
“Minorities,” 145 (5.7)
Minority groups, 145 (5.7)
Minus sign, 187–188 (6.45)
Misplaced modifiers, 123–124 (4.23)
Missing data, 87 (3.7)
Missing information, references with, 59, 284 (Table 9.1), 294 (9.26)
Mixed methods articles, 6 (1.3), 76 (3.4)
Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Mixed), 105
(3.18), 106–108 (Table 3.3)
Mixed methods research
figures for, 233 (7.36), 242 (Figure 7.11)
JARS–Quant and, 84 (3.6)
multiple publications from, 20 (1.16)
reporting standards for, 105 (3.18), 106–108 (Table 3.3)
tables for, 209 (7.21), 224 (Table 7.24)
Mixed models research, 6 (1.3)
Mobile apps,
general mentions of, 268–269 (8.22)
references to, 338–340 (10.10)
Model comparisons table, 209 (7.21), 221–223 (Tables 7.19–7.21)
Models
capitalization for, 166 (6.16)
charts for, 233 (7.36), 238–240 (Figures 7.6–7.9)
conceptual, 233 (7.36), 238 (Figure 7.6)
Modified replication, 7 (1.4)
Modifiers, 123–124 (4.23)
Mood, 119 (4.14)
Multidimensional scaling, 233 (7.36), 246 (Figure 7.16)
Multilevel model comparison, 209 (7.21), 222 (Table 7.20)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 671 ---

Multimethods research, 6 (1.3)
Multipanel figures, 234 (7.36), 248 (Figure 7.18)
Multiple regression, 209 (7.21), 219–221 (Tables 7.15–7.18)
Multivolume works, 292 (9.20), 323 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
Museum website, reference to, 346 (10.14)
Music album, reference to, 341, 344–345 (10.13)
N
Name(s)
author, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 33 (2.5), 34
(Table 2.2), 287 (9.9), 304 (9.45)
condition or group, 169 (6.20)
factor, variable, and effect, 169 (6.21)
gene and protein, 177–178 (6.31)
in legal references, 357 (11.4)
publisher, 295–296 (9.29)
trade, 165–166 (6.14)
variable, 169 (6.21)
Name changes, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
Narrative citations, 263 (8.11)
block quotation with, 273 (8.27)
repeated, 265 (8.16), 265 (Figure 8.3)
in sample papers, 51, 52, 61, 63, 64
Narrative essays, 10 (1.10)
Narrative literature review articles, 8 (1.5), 8 (1.6), 75 (3.3)
Narrator, 321–323 (10.2)
National Center for Biotechnology Information, 177 (6.31)
Native American, 142 (5.7), 144 (5.7)
Native North American, 144 (5.7)
Natural history studies, 91 (3.9)
Negative terminology, disability-related, 137 (5.4)
Negro, 143 (5.7)
“Neither . . . nor,” 125 (4.24)
Newspaper article, references to, 317 (10.1), 320 (10.1)
Newspapers, book reviews in, 335 (10.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 672 ---

News websites, 351 (10.16)
New Zealand, Indigenous Peoples of, 144 (5.7)
Nexis Uni, 297 (9.30), 359 (11.4)
NHST (null hypothesis significance testing), 81 (Table 3.1), 87 (3.7)
N-of-1 studies, 80 (Table 3.1), 82 (Figure 3.1), 92 (3.10)
Nonbinary gender, 138–139 (5.5)
“None,” 119 (4.15)
Nonexperimental studies, JARS–Quant for, 91 (3.9)
Nonhuman animal research subjects, 21–22 (1.18), 82–83 (3.6), 187
(6.44)
Nonrandom assignment, 91 (3.9)
Nonrecoverable sources, 300–301 (9.37)
Nonrestrictive clauses, 122–123 (4.21)
“Nor,” compound subjects joined by, 119–120 (4.15)
North America, Indigenous Peoples of, 142–144 (5.7)
Notation system, selecting, 183 (6.44)
Notes
author, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 35–37 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3), 77
(Table 3.1), 95 (Table 3.2), 106 (Table 3.3)
figure, 40 (2.13), 60, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 229 (7.28)
footnotes, 40–41 (2.13), 43 (2.17), 45 (2.21), 55
general, 203 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
lecture, 347 (10.14)
probability, 204 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
specific, 203 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
table, 60, 199 (7.9), 200 (Table 7.1), 203–205 (7.14)
“Not only . . . but also,” 125 (4.24)
Nouns
collective, 119 (4.15)
followed by numerals or letters, 169 (6.19)
gender and usage of, 139–140 (5.5)
proper. See Proper nouns
strings of, 112–113 (4.3)
Null hypothesis significance testing (NHST), 81 (Table 3.1), 87 (3.7)
Number(s), 178–181 (6.32–6.39)
article, 294–295 (9.27), 318 (10.1)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 673 ---

of authors, in citation, 266 (8.17), 266 (Table 8.1), 267 (8.18)
commas in, 181 (6.38)
decimal fractions, 180–181 (6.36)
figure, 55, 60, 197–198 (7.5), 225 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 227
(7.24)
within figure images, 227 (7.26)
footnote, 40–41 (2.13)
identification, 329–331 (10.4), 337 (10.8), 338 (10.9), 341 (10.11)
as numerals, 178–179 (6.32), 180 (6.34)
ORCID iD, 31 (Figure 2.1), 35–36 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
ordinal, 180 (6.35)
page, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 44 (2.18), 270
(8.25), 272 (Table 8.2), 273–274 (8.28), 359 (11.4)
plurals of, 181 (6.39)
of research subjects, 187 (6.44)
as Roman numerals, 181 (6.37)
subject/verb agreement in, 119–120 (4.15)
table, 54, 197–198 (7.5), 199 (7.9), 200 (7.10), 200 (Table 7.1)
volume, 292 (9.20), 321 (10.2), 323 (10.2), 326 (10.3), 328 (10.3)
in words, 179–180 (6.33), 180 (6.34)
works with canonically numbered sections, 274 (8.28), 303 (9.42)
Numbered lists, 190 (6.51)
Numerals
Arabic, 181 (6.37), 190 (6.51), 200 (7.10), 207 (7.20), 227 (7.24),
232 (7.35)
nouns followed by, 169 (6.19)
numbers expressed as, 178–179 (6.32), 180 (6.34)
order of references with, 306 (9.49)
Roman, 181 (6.37)
Numerical range, 53, 56
O
Obituaries, 9 (1.9)
Objectives, study. See also Goals, research
JARS–Mixed on, 106 (Table 3.3)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 674 ---

JARS–Qual on, 95 (Table 3.2)
JARS–Quant on, 77 (Table 3.1), 78 (Table 3.1)
Objects, pronouns as, 122 (4.20)
Observational studies, 91 (3.9)
Older adults, 135–136 (5.3)
Omissions
of citations in quotations, 276 (8.32), 276 (Figure 8.7)
from direct quotations, 275 (8.31), 275 (Figure 8.6)
One-author reference list entries, 304–305 (9.46)
One-tailed tests, in tables, 204 (7.14)
One-word names, authors with, 287 (9.8), 325 (10.2), 345 (10.13), 346
(10.14)
Online first publication. See Advance online publication
Online media
reference category for, 281–282 (9.1–9.3)
reference examples, 313, 348–352 (10.15–10.16)
sharing articles via, 394–395 (12.23)
social media, 298 (9.32), 348–350 (10.15)
webpages and websites, 298 (9.33), 350–352 (10.16)
Online posts. See Posts
Online sources
database and archive information for, 296–297 (9.32)
date element of references to, 290 (9.15)
DOIs and URLs for, 298–300 (9.34–9.36)
nonrecoverable, 300–301 (9.37)
print references vs., 282 (9.2)
references to, 282 (9.2), 298–301 (9.32–9.37)
supplemental materials from, 42 (2.15)
Online submission portals, 381–382 (12.10)
“Only,” 124 (4.23)
Open access deposit policies, 393 (12.21)
Open access repositories, 393 (12.21)
Open practices, 14 (1.14), 36 (2.7), 376 (12.4), 393 (12.21)
Open Scholarship Initiative (OSI), 376 (12.4)
Open Science Badges, 14 (1.14)
Operational definitions and labels, 134 (5.2)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 675 ---

Oral Traditions of Indigenous Peoples, 260–261 (8.9)
ORCID iD, 31 (Figure 2.1), 35–36 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
“Or,” compound subjects joined by, 119–120 (4.15)
Order
of authors, in byline, 25 (1.22)
of author’s surname and given name, 304 (9.45)
of pages, 43 (2.17)
of reference list entries, 303–306 (9.44–9.49), 304 (Figure 9.2)
Ordinal numbers, 180 (6.35)
Organization, 47–49 (2.26–2.28)
heading levels, 47–48 (2.27), 48 (Figure 2.4), 48 (Table 2.3), 49
(Figure 2.5)
principles of, 47 (2.26)
section labels, 49 (2.28)
Organizations, reports from, 329 (10.4), 330 (10.4)
Oriental, 143 (5.7)
Original research, 4
OSI (Open Scholarship Initiative), 376 (12.4)
Outlines, 126 (4.26)
Overcitation, 254 (8.1)
Oxford comma (Harvard comma, serial comma), 155 (6.3), 189–190
(6.49)
P
Pacific Islander, 144 (5.7)
Page count, 46 (2.25)
Page header, 44 (2.18)
Page number(s), 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2)
legal reference without, 359 (11.4)
placement in page header, 44 (2.18)
quotations from materials without, 273–274 (8.28)
when citing a direct quotation, 270 (8.25), 272 (Table 8.2)
Pages, order of, 43 (2.17)
Panels, in figures, 229 (7.26)
Paper elements, 29–43 (2.1–2.15)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 676 ---

abstract, 38 (2.9)
appendices, 41–42 (2.14)
author affiliation, 33–35 (2.6)
author name (byline), 33 (2.5), 34 (Table 2.2)
author note, 35–37 (2.7), 38 (Figure 2.3)
footnotes, 40–41 (2.13)
keywords, 38–39 (2.10)
for professional papers, 29 (2.1)
reference list, 39–40 (2.12)
required, 29–30 (2.1–2.2)
running head, 37 (2.8)
for student papers, 30 (2.2)
supplemental materials, 42–43 (2.15)
text (body), 39 (2.11)
title, 31–33 (2.4), 33 (Table 2.1)
title page, 30–31 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2)
Paper presentations, references to, 332 (10.5)
Papers, 29–67. See also Professional papers; Student papers
elements of. See Paper elements
format of, 43–46 (2.16–2.25)
goals for, 76 (3.4)
length of, 46 (2.25)
number of headings in, 48 (2.27)
organization of, 47–49 (2.26–2.28)
Papers, sample, 50–67
author note, 38 (Figure 2.3)
headings, 48 (Figure 2.4)
professional, 31 (Figure 2.1), 50–60
student, 32 (Figure 2.2), 61–67
title page, 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2)
Paragraphs
alignment of, 45 (2.23)
indentation for, 45–46 (2.24)
length of, 115 (4.6)
multiple, block quotation in, 273 (8.27)
Parallel citations in legal references, 355 (11.1)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 677 ---

Parallel comparisons among groups, 145 (5.7)
Parallel construction, 124–125 (4.24)
Paraphrases, 269–270 (8.23–8.24)
long, 64, 269–270 (8.24), 270 (Figure 8.4)
principles of, 269 (8.23)
in sample papers, 51, 52, 64
Parentheses, 159–160 (6.8)
Parenthetical citations, 262–263 (8.11)
block quotation with, 272–273 (8.27)
in sample papers, 51, 52, 55–57, 61
Passive voice, 118 (4.13)
Past tense, 117–118 (4.12), 118 (Table 4.1)
Patchwriting, 255 (8.2)
Patents, 366 (11.8)
Path model, 233 (7.36), 240 (Figure 7.9)
Patients, 141 (5.6)
Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, 363 (11.5)
Peer review process, 376 (12.5), 378–379 (12.7)
Pejorative terms, 147 (5.8), 147–148 (5.9)
People
of color, 145 (5.7)
identifiable, photographs of, 388 (12.17)
pronouns for animals vs., 121–122 (4.19)
Percent symbol, 56, 187 (6.44)
Period, 154–155 (6.2), 272 (Table 8.2)
Periodicals. See also specific types
general mentions of, 268–269 (8.22)
online, 294 (9.26)
reference examples, 316–321 (10.1)
source element for, 294–295 (9.25–9.27)
Permissions, 277 (8.34), 387–389 (12.17)
Personal communications, 65, 260–261 (8.9)
Personal interviews, 259 (8.7)
Person-first language, 134 (5.2), 136–137 (5.4)
Persuasive essays, 10 (1.10)
Photographer, 341, 347 (10.14)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 678 ---

Photographs, 233–234 (7.36), 247 (Figure 7.17)
copyright attribution for, 386 (12.15)
as figures, 230 (7.30)
on Instagram, 350 (10.15)
permission for use of, 388 (12.17)
references to, 347 (10.14)
stock, 346 (10.14), 386 (12.15)
taken by authors, 230 (7.30)
Phrases, in bulleted lists, 191–192 (6.52)
Piecemeal publication, 17 (1.16), 19–20 (1.16)
Plagiarism
avoiding, 254–256 (8.2)
detection of, 255 (8.2), 384 (12.13)
implications of, 21 (1.17)
self-, 21 (1.17), 256–257 (8.3)
Plays, quoting from, 274 (8.28)
Plots, 233 (7.36)
Plural form(s), 161–162 (6.1), 174 (6.26), 181 (6.39)
Podcasts
episodes in, 295 (9.28), 345 (10.13)
references to, 345 (10.13)
Policy briefs, 331 (10.4)
Population, journal and article, 373 (12.2)
Population statistics, 187 (6.44)
Positions, job, 166 (6.14)
Possessives, 162 (6.1)
Poster presentations, 333 (10.5)
Posts
blog, 66, 320 (10.1)
Facebook, 349 (10.15)
online forum, 350 (10.15)
social media, 293 (9.22), 298 (9.32), 348 (10.15), 350 (10.15)
Power, statistical, 79 (Table 3.1), 83–84 (3.6)
PowerPoint slides, 347 (10.14)
Précis, 10 (1.10)
Precision, 79 (Table 3.1), 83–84 (3.6), 132–133 (5.1)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 679 ---

Predatory journals and predatory publishing, 374–376 (12.4)
Prefixes
in author’s name, 345 (10.13)
hyphenation for, 163 (6.12), 164 (Table 6.2)
Preprint archives, 335 (10.8), 337 (10.8)
Prepublication copies of article, 394 (12.23)
Presentations. See Conference presentations
Present perfect tense, 118 (4.12), 118 (Table 4.1)
Present tense, 117–118 (4.12), 118 (Table 4.1)
Press releases, 331 (10.4), 395 (12.24)
Prestige, of journal, 373–374 (12.2)
Primary research, 4
Primary sources, 258 (8.6)
Principal investigator, 25 (1.22), 331 (10.4)
Principles, capitalization for, 166–167 (6.16)
Print references (print version)
examples, 317 (10.1), 321 (10.2), 322 (10.2), 326 (10.3)
online references vs., 282 (9.2)
Probability notes, 204 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
Professional language, 114 (4.4), 115 (4.7)
Professional papers
required elements of, 29 (2.1)
sample, 50–60
title page, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1)
Professional standards, publishing, 11
Professional–student collaborations, 25 (1.22)
Profile pages, social media, references to, 349–350 (10.15)
Promotion of articles, 395 (12.24)
Pronouns, 120–123 (4.16–4.21)
editorial “we,” 120 (4.17)
first-person, 61, 120 (4.16)
first- vs. third-person, 120 (4.16)
gender and usage of, 140 (5.5)
for people vs. animals, 121–122 (4.19)
relative, 121–123 (4.19–4.21)
in restrictive and nonrestrictive clauses, 122–123 (4.21)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 680 ---

singular “they,” 120–121 (4.18)
as subjects and objects, 122 (4.20)
third-person, 120 (4.16)
Proofs, article, 390–392 (12.19)
Proper nouns
capitalization for, 165–166 (6.14)
in titles, reference examples, 317 (10.1), 320 (10.1), 323–325
(10.2), 326 (10.3), 329–331 (10.4), 334 (10.6), 335 (10.7), 337
(10.8), 338 (10.9), 339–340 (10.10), 343–344 (10.12), 344–346
(10.13), 346 (10.14), 349 (10.15), 350 (10.15), 352 (10.14)
Proportion, for figure elements, 227 (7.26)
Protein names, abbreviating, 178 (6.31)
Psychometrics, 79 (Table 3.1)
Publication
correspondence during, 383 (12.12)
data sharing after, 14–15 (1.14)
duplicate, 17–19 (1.16), 256–257 (8.3)
errors, corrections, and retractions after, 13 (1.13)
journal selection for, 373–374 (12.2)
manuscript submitted for, 336–337 (10.8)
piecemeal, 17 (1.16), 19–20 (1.16)
preparing statistical and mathematical copy for, 189 (6.48)
Publication credit, 24 (1.21)
Publication process, 371–395 (12.1–12.24)
activities during and after, 390–395 (12.19–12.24)
and copyright/permission guidelines, 384–390 (12.14–12.18)
editorial, 376–381 (12.5–12.8)
manuscript preparation, 381–384 (12.9–12.13)
preparing for, 371–376 (12.1–12.4)
Public domain, works in, 387 (12.16), 392–393 (12.20)
Public health significance statement, 395 (12.24)
Published interviews, 259 (8.7)
Published version of work, citing, 258 (8.5)
Publisher(s)
as author, 324 (10.2), 330–331 (10.4)
hidden, 374–375 (12.4)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 681 ---

multiple, references with, 322 (10.2), 343 (10.12), 345 (10.13), 346
(10.13)
name of, 295–296 (9.29)
transfer of copyright to, 392 (12.20)
Publishing principles, 3. See also Ethical principles; Legal principles
Punctuation, 153–161 (6.1–6.10)
colon, 156–157 (6.5)
comma, 155–156 (6.3)
dash, 157 (6.6)
italics for, 171 (6.22)
parentheses, 159–160 (6.8)
period, 154–155 (6.2)
for phrases in bulleted lists, 190–191 (6.52)
quotation marks, 157–159 (6.7)
in reference list entries, 284–285 (9.5)
semicolon, 156 (6.4)
slash, 160–161 (6.10)
spacing after, 154 (6.1)
square brackets, 160 (6.9)
for statistics, 187–188 (6.45)
for transitions, 112 (4.2)
and units-of-measurement abbreviations, 175 (6.27)
p values, 180 (6.36), 204 (7.14)
Q
Qualitative articles, 5–6 (1.2), 76 (3.4)
Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Qual), 93–105
(3.13–3.17)
basic expectations, 93–94 (3.13), 95–99 (Table 3.2)
Discussion section, 103–104 (3.16)
Method section, 94 (3.14), 99–103 (3.14)
and Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards, 105 (3.18)
for qualitative meta-analysis, 104–105 (3.17)
Results or Findings section, 103 (3.15)
Qualitative meta-analysis, 7–8 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3), 104–105 (3.17)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 682 ---

Qualitative research, 5 (1.2)
data-sharing considerations for, 16–17 (1.15)
figures for, 233 (7.36), 241 (Figure 7.10)
multiple publications from, 19–20 (1.16)
reporting standards for, 93–105 (3.13–3.17)
tables for, 209 (7.21), 223–224 (Table 7.22–Table 7.23)
Quality of measurements, 79 (Table 3.1), 84 (3.6)
Quantitative articles, 4–5 (1.1), 76 (3.4)
Quantitative data, 209 (7.21), 224 (Table 7.23)
Quantitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS–Quant), 77–93
(3.5–3.12)
for analytic approaches, 93 (3.11)
basic expectations, 77 (3.5), 77–81 (Table 3.1)
Discussion section, 89–90 (3.8)
for experimental studies, 91 (3.9)
Method section, 82–86 (3.6)
and Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards, 105 (3.18)
for nonexperimental studies, 91 (3.9)
for quantitative meta-analysis, 93 (3.12)
research design and, 82 (Figure 3.1)
Results section, 86–89 (3.7)
for special designs, 92–93 (3.10)
Quantitative meta-analysis, 7 (1.5), 74–75 (3.3), 93 (3.12)
Quantitative research, 4 (1.1), 77–93 (3.5–3.12)
Quantitative reviews. See Literature review articles
Question mark
italics for, 171 (6.22)
quotation containing, 272 (Table 8.2)
title ending in, 59, 292 (9.19), 320 (10.1), 344 (10.12), 351 (10.16)
Questionnaires, 385–386 (12.15)
Quotation marks, 57, 157–159 (6.7), 277 (8.33)
Quotations, 270–278 (8.25–8.36)
accuracy of, 274 (8.29)
block, 46 (2.24), 64, 270–271 (8.25), 272–273 (8.27), 277 (8.33)
changes to, 274–275 (8.30–8.31)
with citations to other works, 276 (8.32), 276 (Figure 8.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 683 ---

direct, 270–274 (8.25–8.29)
epigraphs, 277–278 (8.35)
long, 386 (12.15)
of material without page numbers, 273–274 (8.28)
permission to reprint/adapt, 277 (8.34)
with quotation marks inside them, 277 (8.33)
from research participants, 278 (8.36)
short, 63, 270–271 (8.25), 271 (8.26), 277 (8.33)
R
Race and racial identity, 133 (5.1), 142–145 (5.7)
Radio interviews, 346 (10.13)
Radiological data, 230–231 (7.31), 231 (7.33), 234 (7.36), 249 (Figure
7.20)
Random assignment, 91 (3.9)
Randomized clinical trials, 91 (3.9)
Range(s)
of dates in references, 289 (9.13), 315, 330 (10.4), 332–333 (10.5),
343 (10.12), 345 (10.13), 346 (10.14)
examples of, 53, 56
of page numbers, 157 (6.6)
of percentages, 187 (6.44)
Raw data, 16 (1.15), 338 (10.9)
Reaction papers, 10 (1.10)
Recording artist, 341, 344–345 (10.13)
Recruitment of research participants
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 96–97 (Table 3.2), 100–101 (3.14)
JARS–Quant on, 80 (Table 3.1), 87 (3.7)
Redundancy, 114–115 (4.5)
Reference categories, 281–282 (9.1–9.3)
determining, 281–282 (9.1)
for online and print reference, 282 (9.3)
webpages and website, 282 (9.2)
Reference examples, 313–352 (10.1–10.16)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 684 ---

audiovisual media, 341–347 (10.12–10.14)
author variations, 314–315
blog post, 66, 320 (10.1)
book, 66
computer software, mobile apps, apparatuses, and equipment,
338–340 (10.10)
conference presentation, 66
data sets, 337–338 (10.9)
date variations, 315
dissertations, 67
edited book chapter, 66
journal article, 58, 59, 66
legal, 357–368 (11.4–11.10)
online media, 348–352 (10.15–10.16)
report, 66
in sample papers, 58, 59, 66, 67
source variations, 316
tests, scales, and inventories, 340–341 (10.11)
textual works, 316–337 (10.1–10.8)
title variations, 315–316
YouTube videos, 66
Reference forms, legal reference, 356–357 (11.2)
Reference groups, 281–282 (9.1)
Reference list, 39–40 (2.12)
citations in, 257 (8.4)
entries in. See References
format, 303 (9.43)
function of, 281
indentation for, 46 (2.24)
location of, 43 (2.17)
order of entries in, 303–306 (9.44–9.49), 304 (Figure 9.2)
of sample paper, 58–59, 66–67
References, 281–309 (9.1–9.52)
abbreviations in, 306–307 (9.50)
accuracy and consistency in, 285 (9.6)
in adaptation of dissertation/thesis, 372 (12.1)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 685 ---

in annotated bibliographies, 307 (9.51), 308 (Figure 9.3)
APA Style vs. legal, 355–356 (11.1), 356 (Table 11.1)
author element, 285–289 (9.7–9.12)
date element, 289–291 (9.13–9.17)
elements of, 285–301 (9.7–9.37)
and format of reference list, 303 (9.43)
in-text citations and, 262 (8.10), 262 (Figure 8.2)
legal, 355–357 (11.1–11.3)
in meta-analysis, 307 (9.52), 309 (Figure 9.4)
with missing information, 284 (Table 9.1), 294 (9.26)
order of, in reference list, 303–306 (9.44–9.49), 304 (Figure 9.2)
principles of constructing, 283–285 (9.4–9.6)
punctuation in, 284–285 (9.5)
for religious or classical works, 302–303 (9.42)
for reprinted works, 302 (9.40)
for republished/reissued works, 302 (9.41)
sample. See Reference examples
source element, 293–301 (9.23–9.37)
for statistics, 181 (6.41)
title element, 291–293 (9.18–9.22)
for translated works, 301–302 (9.39)
variations in, 301–303 (9.38–9.42)
for works in another language, 301 (9.38)
References to tables and figures. See Callouts
Reference types, 282 (9.1)
Reference works
entries in, 326 (10.3), 328–329 (10.3)
mobile app, 340 (10.10)
reference examples, 321 (10.2), 324–325 (10.2)
source element for reference to, 295 (9.28)
Registration, study, 36 (2.7)
Regression statistics, 182 (6.43), 209 (7.21), 221 (Table 7.18)
Regulations, federal, 357 (Table 11.2), 365–366 (11.7)
Reissued works, 265 (8.15), 302 (9.41)
Rejection, of manuscript, 380–381 (12.8)
Related reports, disclosure of, 36 (2.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 686 ---

Relative pronouns, 121–123 (4.19–4.21)
Releases, for photographs, 230 (7.30). See also Permissions
Relevance, 132 (5.1), 137 (5.4)
Reliability, 108 (Table 3.3)
Religious works
quoting from, 274 (8.28)
references to, 302–303 (9.42), 325 (10.2)
Repealed amendments, 367 (11.9)
Repetition
of citations, 61, 63, 265 (Figure 8.3), 265–266 (8.16), 269–270
(8.24), 271 (Figure 8.5)
of parallel elements, 124–125 (4.24)
in tables, 203, 205 (7.14), 206 (7.19)
of units-of-measurement abbreviations, 176 (6.27)
Replication studies, 6–7 (1.4)
abstracts for, 74 (3.3)
goals in, 76 (3.4)
JARS–Quant on, 92–93 (3.10)
Replies, to previously published articles, 9 (1.9)
Reporters, 358 (11.4)
Reporting standards, 71. See also journal article reporting standards
(JARS)
Reports
annual, 286 (9.7), 330 (10.4)
author element for references to, 285–286 (9.7)
brief, 9 (1.9), 331 (10.4)
federal, 364–365 (11.6)
of multiple studies, in a quantitative article, 4–5 (1.1)
reference category for, 282 (9.2)
references to, 66, 329–330 (10.4)
related, disclosure of, 36 (2.7)
title element of references to, 291 (9.19)
Repositories, 337 (10.8), 393 (12.21)
Reprinted work
citations for, 265 (8.15)
guidelines for reprinting materials, 384–385 (12.14)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 687 ---

quotations from, 277 (8.34)
references to, 302 (9.40), 318–319 (10.1), 327 (10.3)
tables or figures as, 198–199 (7.7)
Republished work
articles republished as book chapters, 20 (1.16)
citations for, 265 (8.15)
references to, 302 (9.41), 318 (10.1), 323 (10.2), 325 (10.2), 327
(10.3), 328 (10.3), 344–345 (10.13)
Reputation, of journal, 375 (12.4)
Research conditions, 80 (Table 3.1)
Research design(s)
common JARS across, 73–76 (3.3–3.4)
compatibility with, 103 (3.15)
complex, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table 7.5)
JARS–Quant on, 80 (Table 3.1), 82 (Figure 3.1), 84 (3.6)
overview of, 94 (3.14), 95–96 (Table 3.2), 107 (Table 3.3)
special, JARS–Quant for, 92–93 (3.10)
Researchers
description of, 94 (3.14), 96 (Table 3.2), 99 (3.14)
perspective of, 17 (1.15), 102 (3.14)
relationship of participants and, 100 (3.14)
Research goals, 76 (3.4), 95 (Table 3.2), 106 (Table 3.3)
Research participant interviews, 259 (8.7)
Research participants and subjects
characteristics of, 78 (Table 3.1), 82–83 (3.6), 132 (5.1), 208
(7.21), 210 (Table 7.2)
flow of, 80 (Table 3.1), 86 (3.7), 236 (Figure 7.4)
JARS–Qual on, 96 (Table 3.2), 99–100 (3.14)
JARS–Quant on, 78 (Table 3.1), 80 (Table 3.1)
language for referring to, 133 (5.1), 141–142 (5.6)
nonhuman animal subjects, 21–22 (1.18), 82–83 (3.6)
protecting rights and welfare of, 21–24 (1.18–1.20)
quotations from, 278 (8.36)
recruitment of, 80 (Table 3.1), 87 (3.7), 96–97 (Table 3.2),
100–101 (3.14), 108 (Table 3.3)
researcher–participant relationships, 100 (3.14)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 688 ---

selection of, 101 (3.14)
symbols for number of, 187 (6.44)
Research problem
framing importance of, 75–76 (3.4)
reporting standards on, 78 (Table 3.1), 95 (Table 3.2), 106 (Table
3.3)
Research reports, raw data presented in, 16 (1.15)
Research results, reporting of, 12–13 (1.12)
Resolution, of photographs, 230 (7.30)
Resolutions, federal, 357 (Table 11.2), 364 (11.6)
Response papers, 10 (1.10)
Response to reviewers, 380 (12.8)
Restrictive clauses, 122–123 (4.21)
Resubmission, article, 379–380 (12.8)
Results (section)
in adaptation of dissertation/thesis, 372 (12.1)
JARS–Mixed on, 108 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 103 (3.15)
JARS–Quant on, 80–81 (Table 3.1), 86–89 (3.7)
quantitative article, 4 (1.1)
Retractions, 13 (1.13)
Retrieval date, 290 (9.16), 319 (10.1), 325 (10.2), 328 (10.3), 347
(10.14), 349 (10.15), 350 (10.15), 352 (10.16)
Reverse italicization, 171–172 (6.23), 335 (10.7)
Review(s)
data sharing during, 14 (1.14)
date of last, 290 (9.15)
literature (narrative literature), 8 (1.5), 8 (1.6), 75 (3.3)
masked, 378–379 (12.7)
peer review process, 376 (12.5), 378–379 (12.7)
reference examples, 334–335 (10.7)
of relevant scholarship in the introduction, 75–76 (3.4)
Reviewers, 23–24 (1.20), 378–379 (12.7), 380 (12.8)
Revisions, 127 (4.30), 380 (12.8)
Rights
intellectual property, 24–26 (1.21–1.25)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 689 ---

of research participants and subjects, 21–24 (1.18–1.20)
Roman numerals, 180 (6.37)
Roman works, ancient, 325 (10.2)
Routes of administration, 177 (6.30)
Running head, 30 (2.3), 31 (Figure 2.1), 37 (2.8), 44 (2.18), 51
S
Sample size, 79 (Table 3.1), 83–84 (3.6)
Sample statistics, 187 (6.44)
Sampling procedures, 79 (Table 3.1), 83 (3.6)
Scales. See also Tests
anchors for, 53, 170 (6.22)
copyright attribution, 385–386 (12.15)
references to, 340–341 (10.11)
Scatterplots, 233 (7.36), 245 (Figure 7.15)
Screen name. See Username
Secondary sources, 63, 258 (8.6)
Sections
canonically numbered, 274 (8.28), 303 (9.42)
journal, references to, 319 (10.1)
labels for, 46 (2.24), 49 (2.28), 50, 58
“See also” citation, 57, 65, 263 (8.12)
Self-plagiarism, 21 (1.17), 256–257 (8.3)
Semicolon, 156 (6.4)
Senate, 357 (Table 11.2), 364 (11.6), 365 (11.6)
Sentence(s)
abbreviations at beginning of, 174 (6.26)
capitalization at beginning of, 165 (6.13)
complete, in bulleted lists, 190–191 (6.52)
length of, 115 (4.6)
Sentence case, 168 (6.17)
Sentence construction, 123–125 (4.22–4.24)
misplaced or dangling modifiers, 123–124 (4.23)
parallel construction, 124–125 (4.24)
subordinate conjunctions, 123 (4.22)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 690 ---

Sequential regression statistics, 182 (6.43)
Serial comma, 155 (6.3), 189 (6.49)
Seriation. See Lists
Series
parallel construction for elements in, 125 (4.24)
references to books in, 323–324 (10.2)
reports published as, 330 (10.4)
title element in references to, 292 (9.20)
SES (socioeconomic status), 133 (5.1), 147–148 (5.9)
Sex, gender vs., 138 (5.5)
Sex assignment, 139 (5.5)
Sexual orientation, 133 (5.1), 145–147 (5.8)
Shading
of figure images, 227–228 (7.26)
in tables, 205–206 (7.17)
Shakespeare, William, work of, 325 (10.2)
Shared affiliations, 34–35 (2.6)
Sharing articles online, 394–395 (12.23)
Shill. See Slash
ShortDOIs, 66, 67, 300 (9.36), 317 (10.1)
Short quotations, 63, 271–272 (8.26), 272 (Table 8.2), 277 (8.33)
Short URL
reference examples, 320 (10.1), 321–323 (10.2), 333 (10.5), 335
(10.7), 344 (10.12), 347 (10.14), 349–350 (10.15)
references to, 300 (9.36)
in sample paper, 66
“[sic],” in quotations, 274 (8.29)
“Since,” 123 (4.22)
Singular “they,” 120–121 (4.18), 140 (5.5)
Situatedness, 105 (3.17)
Slash, 160–161 (6.10)
Slides, PowerPoint, 347 (10.14)
Social media
author element in references to, 287 (9.8)
bracketed descriptions for, 292 (9.21)
reference examples, 320 (10.1), 344 (10.12), 348–350 (10.15)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 691 ---

source element in reference to, 293 (9.23), 298 (9.32)
title element in references to, 293 (9.22)
Socioeconomic status (SES), 133 (5.1), 147–148 (5.9)
Software, 269 (8.22), 313, 338–339 (10.10)
Solicitation, informal, 374 (12.4)
Solidus. See Slash
Songs, references to, 295 (9.28), 345 (10.13)
Source(s)
citations for specific parts of, 264 (8.13)
defined, 293 (9.23)
general mentions of, 268–269 (8.22)
primary and secondary, 63, 258 (8.6)
references to works without, 300–301 (9.37)
repeated citations to clarify, 270 (8.24), 271 (Figure 8.5)
Source data, sharing, 14 (1.14)
Source element (reference), 282 (9.3), 283 (9.4), 293–301 (9.23–9.37)
archive information in, 296–297 (9.30)
article numbers in, 294–295 (9.27)
database information in, 296–297 (9.30)
definition of source for, 293 (9.23)
DOIs and URLs in, 298–299 (9.34)
for edited book chapters, 295 (9.28)
format of, 293–294 (9.24)
for online periodicals with missing information, 294 (9.26)
for periodicals, 294–295 (9.25–9.27)
publisher’s name in, 295–296 (9.29)
for reference works, 295 (9.28)
shortDOIs and short URLs in, 300 (9.36)
for social media content, 298 (9.32)
variations in, 316
for websites, 298 (9.33)
for works without sources, 300–301 (9.37)
for works with specific locations, 297 (9.31)
Spacing, 45 (2.21), 154 (6.1), 187–188 (6.45), 202 (7.13)
Speaker, references to, 343–344 (10.12), 346 (10.13)
Special characters, formatting, 44 (2.20)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 692 ---

Special issues or sections, journal, 319 (10.1)
Specialized roles, authors with, 287–288 (9.10)
Specificity, 132–133 (5.1)
Specific notes, 203 (7.14), 229 (7.28)
Speech, audio recordings of, 346 (10.13)
Spell-checking, 127 (4.30)
Spelling, 161–164 (6.11–6.12)
of author’s name, 287 (9.9)
hyphenation, 162–163 (6.12), 163–164 (Tables 6.1–6.3)
preferred, 161–162 (6.11)
of racial and ethnic terms, 142–143 (5.7)
of units-of-measurement abbreviations, 174–176 (6.27)
Square brackets, 160 (6.9)
Squinting modifiers, 124 (4.23)
Standard copyright, 386–387 (12.16)
State appellate court, 359 (11.4), 361 (11.4)
State constitutions, 367 (11.9)
State court decisions, 359 (11.4)
State statutes, 361 (11.5), 363 (11.5)
State supreme court, 359 (11.4), 360 (11.4)
State trial court, 359 (11.4)
Statistical significance, 204 (7.14)
Statistics, 181–188 (6.40–6.45)
capitalization for procedures, 166 (6.16)
descriptive statistics, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table 7.6)
formulas for, 181 (6.42)
JARS–Quant on, 80–81 (Table 3.1), 87–89 (3.7)
preparing, for publication, 189 (6.48)
presentation of, 181 (6.40)
references for, 181 (6.41)
in sample papers, 53, 54
spacing, alignment, and punctuation, 187–188 (6.45)
symbols and abbreviations for, 182 (6.44), 183–186 (Table 6.5),
186–187 (6.44)
in text, 182–183 (6.43)
Statutes, references to, 361–363 (11.5)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 693 ---

Stereotyping, 147–148 (5.9)
Stigmatizing language, 133 (5.2)
Stimuli, illustration of, 233 (7.36), 243 (Figure 7.13)
Stock images, 346 (10.14), 386 (12.15)
Streaming video, 344 (10.12). See also YouTube
Strengths, study, 90 (3.8), 104 (3.16)
Strengths-based language, 148 (5.9)
Structural equation modeling, 93 (3.11), 233 (7.36), 239 (Figure 7.7)
Stub (stub column), 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.12)
Stub head, 200 (Table 7.1)
Student papers or assignments
annotated bibliographies, 9 (1.10), 307 (9.51), 308 (Figure 9.3)
guidelines for, 9–10 (1.10)
required elements of, 30 (2.2)
sample, 61–67
title page, 30–31 (2.3), 32 (Figure 2.2)
Study design. See Research design(s)
Study method, reporting guidelines on, 78–80 (Table 3.1)
Style guidelines, 153–191 (6.1–6.52)
abbreviations, 172–178 (6.24–6.31)
capitalization, 165–169 (6.13–6.21)
italics, 170–172 (6.22–6.23)
lists, 189–191 (6.49–6.52)
numbers, 178–181 (6.32–6.39)
presentation of equations, 188–189 (6.46–6.48)
punctuation, 153–161 (6.1–6.10)
spelling, 161–164 (6.11–6.12)
for statistical and mathematical copy, 181–188 (6.40–6.45)
Subject(s)
agreement of verb and, 119–120 (4.15)
compound, 119–120 (4.15)
pronouns as, 122 (4.20)
Subjunctive mood, 119 (4.14)
Submission
cover letters for, 382–383 (12.11)
nonstandard processes, 375 (12.4)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 694 ---

with online submission portal, 381–382 (12.10)
preparing manuscript for, 381 (12.9)
Subordinate conjunctions, 123 (4.22)
Subscripts, 188 (6.45)
Subtitles, titles with two, 329 (10.4)
Suffixes
author’s names with, 33 (2.5), 262 (8.10), 346 (10.13)
hyphenating, 163 (6.12), 164 (Table 6.2)
Superscripts, 188 (6.45)
Supplemental checks, qualitative research, 98 (Table 3.2), 102–103
(3.14)
Supplemental materials, 41 (2.14), 42–43 (2.15)
Supreme courts
state, 359 (11.4), 360 (11.4)
U.S., 358 (11.4), 359 (11.4)
Surname, author’s, 267–268 (8.20), 304 (9.45), 306 (9.48)
Symbols, 44 (2.20). See also Abbreviations
for number of research subjects, 187 (6.44)
for percentage and currency, 187 (6.44)
for statistics, 182 (6.44), 183–186 (Table 6.5), 186–187 (6.44)
in tables and figures, 205 (7.15)
Symposium contributions, 333 (10.5)
Synonyms, 114 (4.4)
T
Table-only appendices, 41–42 (2.14)
Tables, 195–224 (7.1–7.21)
abbreviations in, 205 (7.15)
in adaptation of dissertation/thesis, 372 (12.1)
body, 45 (2.21), 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 202–203 (7.13)
borders and shading, 205–206 (7.17)
callouts for, 54, 197–198 (7.5)
checklist, 206 (7.20), 207
components, 199 (7.9), 200 (Table 7.1)
confidence intervals in, 205 (7.16)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 695 ---

construction principles, 199 (7.8)
copyright attribution for, 198–199 (7.7), 385 (12.15), 391 (Table
12.2)
defining abbreviations in, 173 (6.25), 205 (7.15)
design and preparation, 195–196 (7.2)
figures vs., 195
format for, 197 (7.4)
general guidelines, 195–199 (7.1–7.7)
and graphical vs. textual presentation, 196–197 (7.3)
headings, 201–202 (7.12)
indentation for, 46 (2.24), 201 (7.12)
location of, 41 (2.14), 43 (2.17)
long or wide, 206 (7.18)
notes, 60, 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 203–205 (7.14)
numbers, 54, 60, 197–198 (7.5), 199 (7.8), 200 (7.10), 200 (Table
7.1)
placement of, 198 (7.6)
purpose of, 195 (7.1)
relation between, 206 (7.19)
reprinting or adapting, 198–199 (7.7)
spacing in, 45 (2.21), 202 (7.13)
titles, 60, 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.11)
Tables, sample, 60, 206 (7.21), 208–209 (7.21)
ANOVA, 208–209 (7.21), 216 (Table 7.12), 217 (Table 7.13)
chi-square results, 208 (7.21), 214 (Table 7.7)
correlation table for one sample, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.10)
correlation table for two samples, 208 (7.21), 216 (Table 7.11)
demographic characteristics of research participants, 208 (7.21),
210 (Table 7.2)
descriptive statistics for study measures, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table
7.6)
factor analysis, 209 (7.21), 218 (Table 7.14)
meta-analysis summary, 208 (7.21), 212 (Table 7.4)
mixed methods, 209 (7.21), 224 (Table 7.24)
model comparisons, 209 (7.21), 221–223 (Tables 7.19–7.21)
multiple regression, 209 (7.21), 219–221 (Tables 7.15–7.18)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 696 ---

a priori or post hoc comparisons, 208 (7.21), 215 (Table 7.9)
properties of study variables, 208 (7.21), 211 (Table 7.3)
qualitative, 209 (7.21), 223–224 (Tables 7.22–7.23)
summary of complex experimental design, 208 (7.21), 213 (Table
7.5)
t-test results, 208 (7.21), 214 (Table 7.8)
Table spanner, 200 (Table 7.1), 202 (7.12)
Task forces, reports and articles from, 330 (10.4)
Technology, spellings for, 162 (6.11)
TED Talks, 274 (8.28), 343–344 (10.12)
Temporary compound words, 162 (6.12), 163 (Table 6.1)
Testimony, federal, 363 (11.6)
Tests
copyright attribution for, 385–386 (12.15)
one- and two-tailed, 204 (7.14)
references to, 313, 340–341 (10.11)
titles of, 168 (6.18)
Text (body), 39 (2.11)
citations in, 261–269 (8.10–8.22)
defining abbreviations in, 173 (6.25)
equations in, 188 (6.46)
location of, 43 (2.17)
presentation of data in tables or figures vs., 196–197 (7.3)
statistics in, 181–182 (6.43)
of tables, 202–203 (7.13)
Textual work reference examples, 313, 316–337 (10.1–10.8)
books and reference works, 321–325 (10.2)
conference sessions and presentations, 332–333 (10.5)
dissertations and theses, 333–334 (10.6)
edited book chapters and reference work entries, 326–329 (10.3)
periodicals, 316–321 (10.1)
reports and gray literature, 329–331 (10.4)
reviews, 334–335 (10.7)
unpublished and informally published works, 335–337 (10.8)
Textual works
in another language, 301 (9.38)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 697 ---

archival version of, 258 (8.5), 290 (9.16)
classical, 274 (8.28), 302–303 (9.42), 325 (10.2)
classical literature, 302–303 (9.42), 325–326 (10.2)
by first authors with same surname, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
direct quotation of, without page numbers, 273–274 (8.28)
headings within, 167–168 (6.17)
of limited circulation, references to, 297 (9.30)
multiple, citations for, 51, 52, 55–57, 263–264 (8.12)
multivolume, 292 (9.20)
with no/unknown author, 264–265 (8.14), 306 (9.49)
quotations with citations to other, 276 (8.32), 276 (Figure 8.7)
religious, 302–303 (9.42)
reprinted, 265 (8.15), 302 (9.40)
republished or reissued, 265 (8.15), 302 (9.41)
with same author and same date, 51, 58, 267 (8.19), 305 (9.47)
translated, 265 (8.15), 301–302 (9.39)
without authors, 264–265 (8.14), 289 (9.12)
without dates, 291 (9.17)
without sources, 300–301 (9.37)
without titles, 292–293 (9.22)
“That,” 121–122 (4.19), 122–123 (4.21)
Theme, of article and journal, 373 (12.2)
Theoretical articles, 8 (1.7), 75 (3.3)
Theories, capitalization for, 166 (6.16)
Therapies, names of, 166 (6.16)
Thesaurus, 324–325 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
Theses, 10 (1.10)
adapting, into a journal article, 371–372 (12.1)
margins for, 45 (2.22)
publishing as journal article, 257 (8.3)
references to, 297 (9.30), 333–334 (10.6)
“They,” singular, 120–121 (4.18), 140 (5.5)
Third-person pronouns, 120 (4.16)
3-D effects, for figures, 228 (7.26)
Time
abbreviations related to, 64, 176 (6.28)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 698 ---

for peer review, 379 (12.7)
Time stamp, 264 (8.13), 274 (8.28), 299 (9.34)
Title(s), 31–33 (2.4), 31 (Figure 2.1), 32 (Figure 2.2), 33 (Table 2.1)
defined, 291 (9.18)
exclamation point in, 350 (10.15)
figure, 60, 226 (7.23), 226 (Figure 7.1), 227 (7.25)
headings and, 47 (2.27), 48 (Figure 2.4), 49 (Figure 2.5)
JARS–Mixed on, 106 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 95 (Table 3.2)
JARS–Quant on, 77 (Table 3.1)
job and position, 166 (6.15)
in legal references, 357 (11.4)
location of, 30 (2.3)
question mark in, 59, 292 (9.19), 320 (10.1), 344 (10.12), 351
(10.16)
in samples, 51, 61
table, 60, 199 (7.8), 200 (Table 7.1), 201 (7.11)
of tests and measures, 168–169 (6.18)
within titles, references to, 171–172 (6.23), 335 (10.7)
of works, 167–168 (6.17)
works without, references to, 292–293 (9.22), 338 (10.9), 347
(10.14)
of x-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1)
of y-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1)
Title case, 167–168 (6.17)
Title element (reference), 283 (9.4), 291–293 (9.18–9.22)
with bracketed descriptions, 292 (9.21)
definition of title for, 291 (9.18)
format for, 291–292 (9.19)
for series and multivolume works, 292 (9.20)
variations in, 315–316
for works without titles, 284 (Table 9.1), 292–293 (9.22)
Title IX (Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act), 363 (11.5)
Title page, 30–31 (2.3), 46 (2.24)
JARS–Mixed on, 106 (Table 3.3)
JARS–Qual on, 95 (Table 3.2)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 699 ---

JARS–Quant on, 77 (Table 3.1)
line spacing on, 45 (2.21)
location of, 43 (2.17)
professional sample, 31 (Figure 2.1), 50
student sample, 32 (Figure 2.2), 61
Tone, 115–116 (4.7)
Torres Strait Islanders, 144 (5.7)
Tracks, audio, 345 (10.13)
Trademarked terms, 165 (6.14)
Trade names, 165 (6.14)
Traditional Knowledge of Indigenous Peoples, 260–261 (8.9)
Transgender,
discussion of term, 138–140 (5.5)
name changes related to being, 267–268 (8.20), 306 (9.48)
Transitions, continuity and flow in, 112 (4.2)
Translated work
citations for, 265 (8.15)
reference examples, 318 (10.1), 323 (10.2), 325 (10.2), 327 (10.3),
343 (10.12)
references to, 301–302 (9.39)
Translator, crediting, 301–302 (9.39)
Transliterated work, 301 (9.38), 323 (10.2)
Transnegativity, 139 (5.5)
Transparency
and predatory journals, 375 (12.4)
reporting standards to improve, 71, 72 (3.1), 97 (Table 3.2), 100
(3.14)
Transprejudice, 139 (5.5)
Treaties, references to, 368 (11.10)
“Treatment as usual,” 85 (3.6)
Treatments, name of, 166 (6.16)
Trial court, state, 359 (11.4)
t-test results table, 208 (7.21), 214 (Table 7.8)
t values, 182 (6.43)
TV shows
episode reviews of, 335 (10.7)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 700 ---

quoting from, 274 (8.28)
references to, 343 (10.12)
references to episodes in, 295 (9.28), 343 (10.12)
Tweets, 348–349 (10.15)
Twitter, references to, 348–349 (10.15)
Two-part surnames, authors with, 317 (10.1), 322 (10.2), 326–327
(10.3), 333 (10.5), 343 (10.12), 345 (10.13), 351 (10.16)
Two-tailed tests, in tables, 204 (7.14)
U
Undercitation, 254 (8.1)
Underprivileged groups, 145 (5.7)
Unenacted federal resolutions, 364 (11.6)
Uniform resource locators. See URLs
United Nations, 368 (11.9), 368 (11.10)
United States Code (U.S.C.), 357 (Table 11.2), 361 (11.5), 362 (11.5),
363 (11.5)
United States Reports, 357 (Table 11.2), 358–359 (11.4)
Units of measurement, abbreviations for, 174–176 (6.27), 175 (Table
6.4), 205 (7.15)
Unknown authors, 264–265 (8.14), 306 (9.49), 343 (10.12)
Unpublished raw data, 338 (10.9)
Unpublished works
copyright on, 26 (1.24)
date element in reference to, 290 (9.14)
reference examples, 334 (10.6), 335–337 (10.8)
Update, date of last, 290 (9.15)
UpToDate database, 319 (10.1)
URLs (uniform resource locators)
in APA references generally, 282 (9.3)
for classroom and intranet sources, 259 (8.8), 268 (8.22)
format of, 299–300 (9.35)
inclusion of, 298–299 (9.34)
in legal references, 358 (11.4)
line breaks in, 45 (2.23)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 701 ---

short. See Short URL
Usage, 117–125 (4.12–4.24)
pronouns, 120–123 (4.16–4.21), 140 (5.5)
and sentence construction, 123–125 (4.22–4.24)
verbs, 117–120 (4.12–4.15)
U.S.C. See United States Code (U.S.C.)
Username
in author element of reference, 287 (9.8)
reference examples, 320 (10.1), 344 (10.12), 348–350 (10.15)
V
Validity, 108 (Table 3.3)
Variables
descriptions of, 209 (7.21), 223 (Table 7.22)
names of, 169 (6.21)
properties of, 208 (7.21), 211 (Table 7.3)
Verbs, 117–120 (4.12–4.15)
for active and passive voice, 118 (4.13)
mood and, 119 (4.14)
subject and verb agreement, 119–120 (4.15)
Verb tense, 117–118 (4.12), 118 (Table 4.1)
Version, titles including, 337–338 (10.9), 338–340 (10.10)
Videos
Instagram, 350 (10.15)
reference examples, 342–344 (10.12)
streaming, 344 (10.12)
YouTube, 66, 274 (8.28), 343–344 (10.12)
Vignettes, copyright attribution for, 385–386 (12.15)
Virgule. See Slash
Visual artists, 341, 342, 346–347 (10.14)
Visual works, references to, 346–347 (10.14)
Voice, 118 (4.13)
Volume number, 292 (9.20), 323 (10.2), 328 (10.3)
W
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 702 ---

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG), xviii, 42 (2.15), 228
(7.26)
Webinars, 341, 344 (10.12)
Webisodes, 343 (10.12)
Webpages and websites
author element of references to, 286 (9.7)
date element of references to, 289 (9.13), 290 (9.15), 290 (9.16)
DOIs and URLs for works from, 299 (9.34), 300 (9.36)
general mentions of, 268 (8.22)
hidden, 374–375 (12.4)
museum, 346 (10.14)
reference category for, 282 (9.2)
reference examples, 350–352 (10.16)
source element of references to, 293 (9.23), 298 (9.33)
TV episode review on, 335 (10.7)
“We,” editorial, 120 (4.17)
“Which,” 122–123 (4.21)
“While,” 123 (4.22)
White, 143 (5.7)
“Who,” 121–122 (4.19), 122 (4.20)
“Whom,” 122 (4.20)
Wide tables, 206 (7.18)
Wikipedia, 329 (10.3)
Word count, 46 (2.25), 383 (12.10)
Wordiness, 114 (4.5), 131
Working group reports, 330 (10.4)
Works. See specific types
Works credited in the text, 253–278 (8.1–8.36)
citations, 253–269 (8.1–8.22)
paraphrases, 269–270 (8.23–8.24)
quotations, 270–278 (8.25–8.36)
“Would,” 119 (4.14)
Writer
in author element of reference, 288 (9.10)
of TV show episode or webisode, 341, 343 (10.12)
Writing centers, 126 (4.29)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

--- Page 703 ---

X
x-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1), 232 (7.36)
Y
y-axis, 226 (Figure 7.1), 232 (7.36)
Year, when to omit, 63, 265 (8.16), 265 (Figure 8.3)
YouTube, 66, 274 (8.28), 344 (10.12)
Instagram and Telegram: @PDFEnglish

